EUROPEAN ELECTIONS ON MAY 25, 2014 THE UMP PROJECT Since its creation, the UMP has been deeply attached to the European project, which, in the aftermath of the Second World War, made it possible to reconcile yesterday's enemies and overcomehatreds to anchor our continent in peace. In this respect, the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the European Union at the end of 2012 is a powerful symbol. This raison d'être of the European project has been complemented by other major achievements: the reconstruction of a Europe devastated by war; the internal market, which today makes us the world's leading trading power; the euro, which has collectively protected us in the crisis; financial solidarity between member states; and freedom of movement. We can be proud to follow in the footsteps of both the founding fathers and General de Gaulle, who pushed Europe forward while demanding results. We do not believe that the European project has become an anachronism, overtaken by the upheavals of the world. On the contrary, we believe that the European project is still meaningful, provided that it is modernized, improved and placed at the service of Europeans. If we want to continue to have an influence, if we want to retain control of our destiny, we must not abandon the European project. But we need to take it back in hand! We need to give it a new direction: having a real European ambition means opting for a real change of direction, to better promote and defend, first and foremost, the common interests of the peoples of Europe. Today, we face new challenges. Together with Europe, we must rise to them. First, economic competition with new countries, the size of continents, with strong growth and imposing demographics, creating a huge domestic market. Then there are the new security challenges posed by the rise of terrorism in nearby geographical areas. Finally, the globalization of trade has led to a competition of values. In this context, a single country, even France, does not carry enough weight. Only a geographical, demographic, economic and technological entity the size of Europe can meet the challenges. Europe must be an ambition: an ambition to protect the interests of its citizens and companies first and foremost, an ambition to influence world choices, an ambition to present its values and principles as a model of respect for mankind and democracy. This is the ambition we intend to carry forward in Europe. It's because we have this ambition that we want to change the way Europe works. Because we are patriots, we are Europeans. We have to face reality. While 2013 has been designated by the European Union as the "European Year of the Citizen", there is a strong disconnect between Europe and its citizens. The European Union is breaking records for unpopularity in virtually every member state. We can no longer continue to b u i l d Europe without European citizens, or worse still, in spite of them. 2 Éditions de l'UnionThe Europe we've been building for several years now too often represents a constraint rather than an opportunity. In any case, it no longer opens up sufficient prospects, due to its lack of efficiency, its difficulty in learning the lessons of the economic crisis, in controlling migratory flows and in influencing globalization, which is suffered when it should be an opportunity. Its decision-making processes are complex, its standards increasingly numerous, its representation on the international stage limited, and its leadership contested, when it exists at all. Throughout the European Union, populist, nationalist and separatist movements are taking advantage of the current economic situation to play on Europeans' anxieties. Their solutions, which consist of erecting new borders and customs barriers around each country, leaving the euro and, ultimately, blowing up Europe, are clearly not credible. Worse still, they are dangerous for all Europeans, especially the French. In the face of the irresponsible demagoguery of de-globalization and Fortress Europe, the UMP is determined to propose a genuine ambition for France, which is also an ambition for Europe, a Europe that is united but not uniform, a Europe that gives itself the means to return to the path of growth to create jobs, a Europe that favors the creation of SMEs and industrial champions, a concrete Europe that gets rid of its technocratic approach, a Europe that knows how to defend its interests against its global competitors, a Europe that assumes and protects its borders, a Europe capable of influencing world affairs. It is by building on this new Europe that France will be able to continue to play an important role in the world. Provided our country continues to be a driving force in the Union, as it proved it could be under Nicolas Sarkozy. Progress in eurozone governance, financial regulation with our G20 partners, the energy-climate plan, the asylum and immigration pact: in all these reforms, France has played a major role of which we can be proud. Not forgetting our determined action during the Georgian crisis, with all the European countries, or during the Libyan conflict, during which the United Kingdom and France led a coalition comprising many European states, in cooperation with NATO and within the framework of the UN. For five years, under the impetus of President Nicolas Sarkozy, France has consistently taken the initiative, in liaison with its European partners, first and foremost Germany, to move the yardsticks and respond to the crises likely to affect Europe and the world. During these five years, France has, at the heart of Europe, shown the way to a stronger, more effective Europe. Since the arrival of François Hollande at the head of the State, France has lost its leading role in Europe, which no longer plays its role as a power multiplier for our country. France's voice is weakened in Europe. 3 Éditions de l'UnionFrom an economic point of view, we're falling further and further behind Germany, while our southern neighbors are in the process of implementing the very competitiveness reforms that France is not. It is in the interests of France and the French people to regain a central position in Europe. That's why, to counterbalance the weakness and amateurism of the current government, which is debasing our country in Europe and around the world, we need to elect as many UMP MEPs as possible. With their ambition for Europe and their commitment to serving France and the French people, they will be there, throughout their term of office, to ensure that France regains its influence in Europe, that Europe regains its place in the world and effectively protects each and every one of our fellow citizens while offering them new opportunities. With courage and conviction, they will be there to cast informed votes on legislation to serve citizens, simplify European Union regulations and control the Commission, but also to oppose any new enlargement of the European Union, relaunch the Franco-German partnership, and enable countries that want to move forward more quickly to do so, for example in defense, energy policy, industrial policy, maritime policy or cultural policy. We are in favor of greater coordination within the euro zone. On the other hand, in the vast 28-member European Union, the distribution of competences must be based solely on the concern for efficiency, leaving room for manoeuvre to the member states. 1. Because the UMP is deeply patriotic and European, we believe that Europe must question itself to be useful to France and the French people We have a clear-eyed view of Europe, its strengths and weaknesses, and of what needs to be changed, both at European and national level, to prepare for the future and keep control of our destiny. A. First of all, let's face it, Europe is in deep crisis. This crisis is not new. It's the crisis of a continent that has embodied intellectual, cultural, economic and even moral leadership for centuries, and which is seeing new great powers asserting themselves outside of it, and becoming economic and political giants. This crisis is also the result of a lack of reform. While the euro should have accelerated the convergence of European economies and structural reforms to improve our competitiveness, it has been perceived by many countries, including France, as an achievement, an end in itself, rather than as the beginning of the construction of our common power. This crisis is also linked to the fact that our fellow citizens don't always see the added value of Europe, whose complex decision-making processes and ever-increasing standards make it difficult for them to understand how it works. 4 Éditions de l'UnionFinally, this crisis is linked to uncertainties about Europe' s identity and its borders. By refusing to talk about the nations that make up Europe and their specific characteristics (history, culture, etc.), by seeking to enlarge at breakneck speed without giving any real thought to the new political project that the 28 of us could carry out, we have collectively created the conditions for a Europe without flavor, without limits and without culture. This has given rise to a feeling of doubt and uncertainty among our citizens. This is why we wish to reaffirm today, as we have always done, that Europe needs borders, and that Turkey has no vocation to join the European Union. B. We denounce the crushing responsibility of the president of the Republic and his government in the French people's disenchantment with Europe Since François Hollande took office, France has lost its role as a driving force in Europe. Partisan diplomacy, Germanophobic rhetoric, personal denunciation of Angela Merkel and the "conservatives" who are supposed to lead Europe: the French president has broken with the policies of his predecessors, all of whom had marked their attachment to the strength of the Franco-German couple. A couple implies equality. Yet France is falling further and further behind economically. This situation is bad for both our countries, because our economies are closely intertwined. This situation is seriously affecting France's credibility on the European stage. Today, France is totally isolated. It was unable t o involve its European partners in the much-needed interventions in Mali and the Central African Republic. If this is a form of European recklessness in the face of major risks that threaten us all, it is also a sign of amateurism on the part of French diplomacy. Can we take decisions on our own and then call on our partners to come to our aid without first involving them in our orientations and decisions? We should have conducted a diplomatic tour beforehand, and consulted widely to build a coalition. Nothing was done, and France appeared arrogant to its partners, even though the cause was just and called for a strong response from Europeans. This isolation, this inability to influence the course of events, was reflected in the Ukrainian crisis. French diplomacy is content to make up the numbers. Unlike his German counterpart, Laurent Fabius did not travel to Ukraine or even Moscow to speak on behalf of the European Union during the long Ukrainian crisis. He did make one trip to Kiev, very late in the day, i.e. after the bloodbath on Maidan Square. As for François Hollande, he contented himself with communiqués that were often outdated as soon as they appeared, and with telephone conversations. In reality, in this affair, it was the German and Polish diplomats who took the initiative for Europe. Finally, François Hollande's position on Turkey is unclear. After refusing to vote in favor of the constitutional reform that now submits to referendum any new entry of a state into the European Union, he says he now defers to the referendum. Whereas Nicolas Sarkozy blocked the opening of new discussion chapters with Turkey, François Hollande has agreed to their opening. 5 Éditions de l'UnionFrançois Hollande has no reflection, no vision on the future of the European Union, on the nature of the European project, unlike our European partners who have expressed themselves clearly. 2. What do we offer? A. A Europe secure in its borders A Europe that won't expand indefinitely Joining the European Union is something that has to be earned, not done systematically.Europe's borders must be defined, in order to assert its identity and our common culture. We therefore wish to halt the enlargement of t h e European Union after the entry o f Croatia on July 1, 2013. We need to reassess the European Union's capacity for integration in the light of the economic crisis. The priority must be to deepen and consolidate the European project. This is why we reject Turkey's entry into the European Union. We are, however, in favor of the establishment of a privileged partnership between the European Union and Turkey. Such privileged partnerships should also be envisaged with countries such as Ukraine. A Europe that effectively protects its borders Immigration has intensified, causing tragedies to which we cannot remain indifferent. However, European immigration policy is still not clearly defined, despite French initiatives under the previous five-year term. This immigration, which escapes all political control, is neither understood nor accepted by European citizens. Schengen is malfunctioning. It needs to be radically reformed: ● Common border discipline and a political government for Schengen, with the appointment of a European immigration commissioner to head a European agency for the Schengen area, responsible for harmonizing visa policy, data exchange and asylum. ● The sanction, suspension or even exclusion of a defaulting state. ● Strengthen the resources and actions of the Frontex agency by promoting the eventual creation of a European corps of border guards. ● Our opposition to the entry into the Schengen area of Romania and Bulgaria, which do not offer sufficient guarantees as to their real capacity to monitor these external borders. ● If no serious progress is made within 12 months, we will call for France's participation in the Schengen agreements to be suspended. 6 Éditions de l'Union● We want to introduce migration conditionality into our partnerships with the main third countries concerned (e.g. effective implementation of a readmission agreement for illegal immigrants from their territory). ● We also want to make it possible for repeat offenders and criminals to be deported to their own countries outside the Schengen area, and to include in European law a three-year ban on entry. ● In terms of asylum, we need to implement the Common European Asylum System, which harmonizes standards for processing applications and receiving applicants. However, to prevent asylum from becoming a new channel for illegal immigration, we feel it is essential to adopt a comprehensive list of safe countries of origin at European level, enabling accelerated procedures for asylum applications from these countries. B. A more pragmatic and efficient Europe A variable-geometry Europe The Europe of 28 obviously cannot function like the Europe of 6. For our fellow citizens, decision-making processes are unclear and often seem ineffective because they are complex, with results that are poorly understood. In response to these imperfections, an innovative, new and original form of European construction needs to be devised, based on variable-geometry cooperation, to enable countries that want to move forward faster and further together to do so. For example: cooperation on immigration issues with the northern Mediterranean states, cooperation in the nuclear field with the UK and Finland, cooperation with Germany and the Nordic countries in the development of the electronics and communications industries, cooperation with the UK, Ireland, Portugal and Spain on maritime issues, various forms of cooperation in the defense field... A Europe that concentrates its action where it is really needed It is essential to redefine the division of tasks between the Member States and the European Union. The latter should only act in areas where a European policy will be more effective than a national one in defending the interests of Europeans. We believe that Europe should not intervene in family policies and social issues. A Europe of simplicity The European Commission must stop trying to regulate too much. It must stop producingdirectives and regulations that exasperate our citizens and impose costly and sometimes unnecessary constraints on our businesses. Too many standards seem to have been adopted without questioning their legitimacy with regard to the principle of subsidiarity, and without comparing the benefits they bring with the costs they incur. This production of standards is reaching alarming levels. This arsenal of regulations is encroaching on Europeans' individual freedoms and hampering their initiatives. 7 Éditions de l'UnionNo new standard should be issued without repealing an existing standard in the field concerned, and each directive must be transposed into French law as a minimum, following the example of our German neighbors. C. A Europe that puts us back on the road to competitiveness, growth and jobs The European crisis is not a crisis of demand. It's not our capacity to consume that's the problem. It's our capacity to produce. We'll only get out of the deep rut we're in if we're able to radically change our growth model and turn France and Europe into a land of producers, not just a large consumer market. The challenge facing political leaders today is to unleash the immense potential of our countries by drawing on the talents of our fellow citizens. A Europe that makes employment the top priority We need to make employment a real priority with : ● strengthening the use of the European Social Fund for professional integration (entry into employment, return to employment, job retention); ●greater support for initial and lifelong training and apprenticeships; ●entrepreneurship; ● support for professional mobility through improved recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications. The primary beneficiaries should be young people, whether those who have left the training system without qualifications or young graduates (through the Erasmus + for All program, Youth in Action, etc.), women, the unemployed and senior citizens. In addition to these specific policies, it is essential that the European Central Bank, in addition to its role in combating inflation and promoting monetary stability, should focus more on supporting growth and employment. Such a monetary policy is desirable at a time when public spending and taxation need to be brought under control at all levels. A Europe that promotes the growth of our SMEs SMEs are the backbone of the European economy and play a fundamental role in our efforts to create new jobs. The 23 million SMEs in the European Union account for 2/3 of all jobs in the private sector. We must know how to support our companies, and in particular our SMEs, with : ● the introduction of a genuine Small Business Act to reserve a share of public procurement contracts for SMEs; ● and a Buy European Act to reserve a share of EU public procurement contracts for companies that manufacture in Europe, especially SMEs. 8 Éditions de l'UnionA Europe that puts an end to social and fiscal dumping within its borders. Our citizens are exasperated by our industry's problems of competitiveness due to the disparate application of labor law and taxation, as well as the difference in labor costs within the European Union. France's corporate tax rate is 36%, compared with an EU average of 23% and 10% in Bulgaria and Cyprus! More generally, the average hourly labor cost in the 28 EU countries is 23.7 euros, and 28.4 euros in the 18 countries that have adopted the single currency. In France, it is 34.3 euros, and in Germany 30 euros. It's crucial to put an end to this disparity and establish a level playing field between the 28 EU countries. Fiscal and social convergence within the Union must be our prime ambition. France, along with a limited number of other countries that wish to do so, must be able to move forward through specific cooperation outside the strict framework of the Union. ●We are defending the application of the improvements adopted on the posting of workers; ●We want to improve the application of the rules of the Working Time Directive. Europe, an agricultural and agrifood powerhouse Because food is a vital necessity, Europe, t h e world's second largest agricultural producer and exporter, must make agriculture a highly strategic asset. Faced with a wide range of challenges -food security, growing global demand, price volatility, climate change, the vitality of rural areas and the diversity of agricultural production -we must, more than ever, demand the maintenance of a strong, sustainable Common Agricultural Policy with an ambitious budget. A Europe of major projects to promote growth We need to join forces to launch major European projects to promote growth. ● A common industrial policy to create a favorable ecosystem for our SMEs, and create industrial champions capable of competing with their American, Indian and Chinese rivals (adaptation of competition law, European calls for tender to develop innovative technologies and joint research programs). ● Joint investment i n innovation and high-value-added sectors to keep Europe at the forefront of the global economic race in the years ahead. In the field of research, the European Parliament has rightly pressed governments for a 40% increase in European funding for research and innovation. In aerospace, biosciences, nanosciences, health and renewable energies, these funds are being used to encourage Europe's best laboratories to work together, thus achieving the leverage needed to reach critical mass. 9 Éditions de l'Union● A common space policy: on April 4, the first satellite in the Copernicus earth observation network was launched. The next few years will see the completion of the deployment of the 30 Galileo satellites, setting up the European GPS. The next phase will see the elimination of the thousands of space waste products left over from previous launches: environmental protection is no longer limited to the planet. ● A common energy policy, with a central purchasing unit for gas to give us greater leverage over prices, with support for nuclear power and for ITER (thermo-nuclear reactor), which represents the energy of the future. However, we believe that, in line with our binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, each member state should be able to choose its own energy mix. ● A policy of large-scale infrastructure (transport, energy, telecommunications, new technologies) to develop the European territory and promote economic development. ●A European strategy for digital cultural content. D. A Europe capable of effectively promoting and protectingEuropean interests in global economic competition The days of naively opening up our markets must be over. We want to rebalance our trade relations with third countries, so that everyone plays by the same rules. In WTO (World Trade Organization) negotiations, as in free-trade agreements with the United States, we must together defend a realistic approach, based on the principle of reciprocity with : ● clear negotiating mandates for the European Commission in all WTO trade negotiations; ●transparency in the European Union's international agreements; ●reciprocity in all trade agreements; ● subjecting imports to ethical, health, social and environmental standards; ● access to our public procurement markets reserved for companies from countries that have themselves opened up their markets to us. What's more, we accept that not everything is a commercial matter: some goods are not quite like others, such as those linked to food safety or culture. As far as culture is concerned, we want to create a "European cultural area": our ambition is to promote cultural and linguistic diversity. We also want to facilitate encounters between artists and audiences. With 2.6% of EU GDP and 5 million jobs, we need to unleash the potential of the cultural industries. We also need to strengthen the digital single market, while ensuring the best possible protection for creators, as part of a European strategy for digital cultural content. With reduced taxation for cultural goods, whether physical or online, an alignment of VAT rates will benefit our businesses. We also want to improve the governance and transparency of copyright collecting societies. 10 Éditions de l'Unioncopyright. Similarly, we need to develop a "European Heritage Label" to highlight sites that are symbolic of European history and construction. E. A Europe with the means to achieve its ambitions on the international stage More than ever, it is up to Europeans to assume their responsibilities and security directly. The Obama administration's "pivot to Asia" has led to a certain disengagement from Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Contrary to the hopes that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall, the world we live in is no less dangerous: the risk of unresolved conflicts spreading, inter-religious and inter-ethnic tensions rising, terrorism developing, tensions linked to insufficient food, energy and drinking water resources. Every country has a duty to help protect its citizens at home and abroad. Today, only France and the United Kingdom have sufficiently effective defense capabilities. And even then, they have been weakened by worrying cuts in military budgets. We therefore need to strengthen our cooperation with the UK, and encourage our partners, particularly the Germans, to play their part in this area. This is essential if we are to maintain the European defense industry's capacity for innovation in areas vital to our strategic independence (such as UAVs, for example). Each European country should therefore devote a significant share of its GDP to this mission. Europeans must play the power game. There are no longer any doctrinal, theoretical or ideological problems. France has joined NATO's integrated command. There is no longer any question of rivalry between NATO and the Europe of Defence. The danger now is not overflow, but rather emptiness, as the countries in our immediate vicinity undergo a phase of profound change, with the inevitable turbulence t h a t accompanies major geopolitical shifts. Europe must equip itself with a common defense policy and resources, because the security of its citizens is one of its goals, and because it cannot carry political weight in the world if it is unable to send forces to meet its international commitments and defend its values, particularly in the face of terrorist threats. The UMP is the leading party in France. We are the only ones to say stop to François Hollande's socialism, which is causing France to stall in Europe. We are the only ones to counter the FN, which is harming the French people by proposing the explosion of Europe. We are the only ones willing and able to transform Europe, to provide concrete solutions to the expectations of the French people. 11 Éditions de l'Union