Our Europe makes us strong. For safety, Peace and prosperity. Our Europe makes us strong. For security, peace and prosperity. Joint European election program of CDU and CSU Table of contents Preamble 1. Our Europe serves its citizens • Fundamental freedoms: Our Europe enables borderless mobility throughout Europe. • Single market: Our Europe ensures prosperity. • Work: Our Europe secures existing jobs and creates new ones. • Social security: Our Europe leaves no one behind. • Fairness: Our Europe prevents social abuse. • Sustainability: Our Europe reconciles economy and ecology. • Preserving creation: Our Europe protects the climate, environment and species. • Digital society: Our Europe is seizing the opportunities of digitalization. • Research: Our Europe thinks innovation policy in terms of people. • Youth: Our Europe inspires the young generation. • Education: Our Europe creates opportunities for the future. • Culture and media: Our Europe is a cultural treasure trove. • Home: Our Europe is proud of its cities, villages and regions. • Agriculture and forestry: Our Europe secures our domestic agriculture. 2. Our Europe makes us strong 2.1 Our Europe guarantees prosperity • Social market economy: Our Europe ensures a strong European economic and social order. • European champions: Our Europe adapts EU competition policy to globalization. • Free and fair trade: Our Europe sets the rules for globalization. • Euro: Our Europe is a stability union. • Tax fairness: Our Europe also ensures fair taxation for major international corporations. • Energy Union: Our Europe ensures a secure energy supply. • Projects for the future: Our Europe secures key technologies and builds new ones. • Digital Europe: Our Europe produces digital champions. • Digital Single Market: Our Europe is creating a digital, future-proof economic area. • Transport: Our Europe secures the mobility of tomorrow. 2.2 Our Europe offers security • Security and freedom: Our Europe protects its citizens. • Asylum: Our Europe brings order and humanity together with uniform standards. • Migration: Our Europe is fighting illegal migration. • Border protection: Our Europe protects its borders. • European FBI: Our Europe fights together against terrorists and organized crime. 2.3 Our Europe creates peace • Peace: Our Europe ensures security and stability. • Foreign policy: Our Europe speaks with one voice and brings its political weight to bear in the world. • Transatlantic relations: Our Europe stands up for the values of the West. • Defense union: Our Europe is increasingly taking its fate into its own hands. • Development cooperation: Our Europe creates prospects on the ground. 3. Our Europe sticks together • Identity: Our Europe protects its values. • Democracy: Our Europe is opening a new chapter. • Close to the people: Our Europe listens to the people. • Strong member states: Our Europe strengthens European democracy together with the national parliaments. • Strong together: Our Europe creates new cohesion. • Brexit: Our Europe wants the UK to find its way back to the center of Europe. • Enlargement: Our Europe knows its borders. We are fighting for our Europe! Preamble We have a lot to thank Europe for. Europe was created through courage. A few years after the Second World War, courageous statesmen such as Konrad Adenauer, Robert Schuman and Alcide De Gasperi broke the vicious circle of hatred and war. They took concrete steps towards European unification -against fierce resistance from nationalists with their extremist goals and socialists who rejected Europe for other reasons. We are still benefiting from this today. Never before has there been a longer and more constant phase of peace on our continent. Germany, in the center of Europe, owes a great deal to this unification. Europe made it possible for West Germany to return to the international community of nations after the Second World War. After the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain, Europe enabled the peaceful reunification of Germany in freedom. At the same time, Europe had to prove itself time and again in crises, find common solutions and continue to develop. Europe is moving forward. The European Union is our guarantee for peace and freedom, for prosperity, for respect for human rights, for security and stability. Free access to work and universities, qualifications recognized throughout Europe, joint research -Europe opens up unlimited opportunities for us all. Thanks to the European single market and our common currency, we have experienced an economic upturn and prosperity that we would not have achieved without Europe. Europe is the driving force behind global climate protection. Without Europe, climate protection and, above all, the Paris Climate Agreement would not have been initiated in this way. Our goal remains to combine economic growth and environmental protection. Europe is being challenged. The world is undergoing massive upheaval. Europe is being challenged from within and without. Our values and the order of the West with its open society, liberal democracy and social market economy are increasingly being questioned. At the same time, the European idea is under attack from populists on the left and right as well as from nationalists. Some want a Europe of prohibition and redistribution; others want to destroy the European idea. Major powers also want to weaken our Europe on the international stage. In view of the tensions with Russia, the rise of Asian states and the changed self-image of the USA, our Europe must assert itself with strength and self-confidence. Europe is at a crossroads. Europe must find answers and give its citizens certainty and protection in a changing world. We need Europe, Europe needs us. The CDU and CSU stand for a strong and self-confident Europe. Time and again, we have played a key role in shaping European decisions and steering them for the benefit of the people. We still have this claim today. While the Social Democrats protested against the rapprochement with France in the 1950s and the Greens later took legal action against the single market, we shaped Europe with Konrad Adenauer, Franz Josef Strauß, Helmut Kohl and Theo Waigel and continue to do so today with Angela Merkel. The same applies today: we will not leave our Europe to the populists. To ensure a future of security and prosperity for us, our children and grandchildren, Europe is more important today than ever: only together can we preserve our community of values and way of life, win trade disputes with China and maintain our social standards. Only together can we stand up to global corporations and push for fair taxation and working conditions. Only together can we stand up to new aggressors. For all this, we need a strong and self-confident Europe! We are opening a new chapter. As people's parties, we have a clear vision of our Europe. We are fighting for a Europe that is democratic, capable of acting, secure and close to its citizens. We want Europe to be a strong union of states, a successful economic area and a global anchor of stability in the world! This is what our lead candidate Manfred Weber stands for. He is standing for election across Europe for the office of President of the Commission. 1. Our Europe serves its citizens We want a Europe that serves us all. Europe should benefit everyone, be tangible and offer opportunities -for a free and secure life. Fundamental freedoms: Our Europe enables borderless mobility throughout Europe. Our Europe offers freedom, opportunities for development and strengthens individual responsibility. We can move around Europe without having to wait at borders. We are free to decide in which European country we live and work. And we can pay in many countries with a common currency. We already have lifelong friendships across borders: through school exchanges, studying abroad and working in Europe. We are all united by our European way of life. We want to strengthen this togetherness. We are committed to learning foreign languages and promoting cultural exchange. Togetherness forms the core of the European idea, of mutual understanding and of our European cohesion. Single market: Our Europe ensures prosperity. The single market is the basis for our prosperity. It facilitates borderless mobility for citizens, goods, services and capital within the European Union. This is added value for everyone. The member states gain from trade and competition. We citizens gain additional opportunities for advancement and secure jobs through larger markets. We can choose from a wide range of goods and services. We want to further strengthen the internal market. To this end, we want to gradually dismantle existing barriers and expand infrastructure, education and research for more prosperity and jobs in Europe. We want to ease the burden on citizens and companies and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. Our Europe wants to reduce the additional burden on business for every new rule by at least the same amount elsewhere. Work: Our Europe secures existing jobs and creates new ones. In our Europe, we rely on the power of the social market economy. It promotes the creativity, personal responsibility and freedom of each individual, both employees and entrepreneurs. Equal rights for women and men are of particular concern to us. We want all people to have the opportunity to participate in prosperity and lead a self-determined life. The foundations for this are sound finances, reliable social security systems, the promotion of private investment and the necessary reforms for growth and employment. This has enabled millions of new jobs to be created in Europe over the last five years. We want to continue this success over the next five years: with a further five million new jobs for the future throughout Europe. In recent years, we have also opened up new career prospects for many young people -especially in countries with very high youth unemployment. We want to continue the training guarantee for young people and employment initiatives for young people in order to get even more young people into training and work. We will continue to campaign with our neighbors to introduce our tried and tested concept of dual training across the board. After all, our dual system of vocational training is a successful and exportable model that helps young people enter the world of work and can be an important building block in the fight against youth unemployment. As responsible social partners, employees and employers work together to provide practical and future-oriented dual training. In our Europe, the master craftsman's certificate is a role model. It is a guarantee of solid self-employment. We want a Europe in which employees across Europe have fair and liveable working conditions. We continue to advocate minimum standards for occupational health and safety throughout Europe that also meet the requirements of the digital world of work. In particular, we want to help men and women achieve a better work-life balance. We pay particular attention to people with disability. We want to enable them to participate on an equal footing. We also need more willingness to hire employees with disabilities. The social partnership is a key pillar of the social market economy in our Europe. We want to strengthen this partnership and secure co-determination in companies. Social security: Our Europe leaves no one behind. We do not abandon the weaker members of our society. Solidarity is an essential complement to personal responsibility. In Germany, we stand for a welfare state that recognizes performance and creates a fair balance. Our Europe of social security also knows that earning comes before distributing. And not everything can be solved with money. Our Europe of social security focuses on basic standards for workers' rights as well as health, environmental and consumer protection standards. Nevertheless, member states remain responsible for their own social security systems, minimum wage regulations and pension schemes. European regulations must not abolish, undermine or undermine national protection standards, co-determination rights and security levels. It must be clear in Europe: Those who exercise their right to freedom of movement should not suffer any disadvantages. We will therefore continue to work on improving the mobility of workers in the EU, making it as unbureaucratic as possible and coordinating it better. This also applies to pensions: anyone who has worked in different EU countries in the course of their working life should not suffer any disadvantages in terms of their pension as a result. We are committed to the goal of further harmonizing living conditions in Germany and throughout the European Union. In future, we want to focus structural and investment funds even more strongly on projects that increase competitiveness and create jobs. To ensure that the efforts of structural change are also reflected in the European state aid rules, we are committed to applying the European competition rules to the regions directly affected by the phaseout of lignite in a way that supports the establishment of new industries and the creation of jobs. Flexible rules for the affected regions must be possible. Fairness: Our Europe prevents social abuse. Employees should be able to work under fair conditions anywhere in the European Union. That is why we are also taking action against European wage dumping. We are also using the planned European Employment Agency for this purpose. However, freedom of movement in Europe must not lead to abuse of the social systems of individual member states. We oppose immigration from other EU countries that is aimed at exploiting our country's social security systems at all political levels. We will put an end to abusive child benefit transfers abroad. We also want child benefit for parents from other EU member states to be paid at the level of the country in which their children live (indexation). Sustainability: Our Europe reconciles economy and ecology. Our Europe relies on intelligent technical progress. Our goal is qualitative, resource-conserving growth. We combine economy and ecology to ensure an intact environment and a good quality of life for future generations. This offers real life opportunities and creates jobs for the future. We want to implement the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030 in Europe. We need a continuous development of the European sustainability strategy with concrete measures. Our Europe therefore relies on an industrial concept with a coherent ecological approach. This is exemplified by functioning material cycles. Preserving creation: Our Europe protects the climate, environment and species. Our Europe is worth living in. And we want it to stay that way for our children and grandchildren. That is why the preservation of creation, the conservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate change are key concerns for our Europe. We are pursuing these goals with determination, reason and a sense of proportion. We are putting the results of the UN climate conferences in Paris and Katowice into concrete terms and implementing them step by step. We demand the global pricing of greenhouse gas emissions and their rapid implementation, if necessary initially at the level of the G20 states. We want to put an end to the flood of plastic in the world's oceans and the entry of micro-and nanoplastics. To this end, we are drawing up a Europe-wide strategy to avoid plastic and concluding international agreements on plastic avoidance. Digital society: Our Europe is seizing the opportunities of digitalization. Digitalization must serve people. Our Europe is making citizens and companies fit for the digital future by investing in the key technological areas of the future, in artificial intelligence (AI) and in the responsible use of big data. We want to actively shape the transition to a digital society for the benefit of citizens and our companies. We want everyone to be able to participate in the opportunities of the future. Start-ups should find the best conditions throughout Europe: We want European ideas to be financed with more European capital than before and to be able to be realized in Europe. To this end, we want to set up a European Future Fund to improve start-up financing. This will create the jobs of tomorrow. Research: Our Europe thinks innovation policy in terms of people. With projects for the future, we ensure growth, good jobs and social security in Europe. We think innovation in terms of people. We create the best conditions for research and innovation to ensure that Europe remains ahead of the tough global competition. Our goal is an innovation union that is a leader in key technologies of the future, and which ensure competitiveness and prosperity. It should develop innovations in areas such as climate protection, medicine, mobility and agriculture that benefit people. We want to use new technologies and data to lead the way through cutting-edge research, for example in the fight against cancer and Alzheimer's disease. We will provide "Horizon Europe", the EU's next flagship and framework program for research and development, with sufficient funding and promote innovations from the idea to market maturity. We want to turn it into an innovation budget with the label Further developing "Future made in Europe". Networking in the European Research Area our excellent research facilities. Youth: Our Europe inspires the young generation. Our Europe is a Europe of citizens and especially of the young generation. We are committed to ensuring that Europe's young people can experience the benefits of the European Union first-hand. To this end, we want to expand exchange programs. In future, the Interrail ticket as part of the "DiscoverEU" program should be available free of charge for every 18-year-old. This will make it easier for young people to discover Europe and make friends across borders. Through the European Solidarity Corps, we are creating opportunities for young people to take part in volunteering or employment projects in their own country or abroad. Education: Our Europe creates opportunities for the future. In our Europe, we all have access to a wide range of educational opportunities. Learning foreign languages should become even more important at school, at work and in society. The practical implementation of the European Education Area and the Europe-wide recognition of educational qualifications are a priority for us. In order to promote the mobility of pupils, trainees and students, we will significantly increase the funding for the new Erasmus+ program. We also support the creation of European university networks. They not only strengthen our young people's sense of belonging, but also serve Europe's competitiveness. We want to provide targeted support for excellent European universities. At the same time, we want to promote entrepreneurship and an entrepreneurial spirit among young people in particular. Our dual education system in particular makes an important contribution to this. Due to the rapid increase in new knowledge, it is becoming increasingly important that our Europe also promotes lifelong learning, further education and vocational training. European educational opportunities should therefore also be open to older people. Culture and media: Our Europe is a cultural treasure trove. Our Europe respects the cultural diversity of the regions and nations and promotes cultural unity on our continent. Cultural diversity is what makes Europe so rich. We want to promote European media offerings in a targeted manner. We need European digital platforms, for example by better networking the media platforms of the public broadcasters with their European partners. We also want to make them more easily accessible so that everyone in Europe can experience the cultural wealth and regional and national cultural diversity even better. In the national implementation of the EU Copyright Directive, we will bring together diversity of opinion, copyright protection and legal certainty and ensure that there are no upload filters. Our principle is: pay instead of block! We also want to improve the networking of European public national and state libraries under the umbrella of a European digital library. Home: Our Europe is proud of its cities, villages and regions. Home creates identity and gives people a sense of security. We are open to progress and at the same time cultivate tradition and customs. Home and openness to the world stand for our liberal attitude to life. The municipalities are the foundation of the state and the immediate center of people's lives. We want to strengthen the regions institutionally and continue to promote rural areas. Our Europe and its member states respect the linguistic and cultural rights and identities of ethnic groups and minorities in their traditional homelands and settlement areas. We are therefore committed to the protection and diversity of all languages in Europe. Furthermore, we want to strengthen the use of the German language in Europe and in the EU institutions, i.e. the German language should be respected and actually used as one of three working languages. The German expellees, ethnic German repatriates and ethnic German groups in Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe have an important bridging function in Germany's cooperation with its eastern neighbors and in the further integration of our Europe. Recent European history also makes it clear that expulsions of any kind must be internationally outlawed and violated rights recognized. Agriculture and forestry: Our Europe secures our domestic agriculture. Farmers secure our supply of high-quality local food. Many of these products are protected by regional designations of origin. We want to actively maintain this protection. Without agriculture and forestry, there can be no strong rural areas. areas. They contributeessential to preservation our diverse cultural landscapes. Our Europe needs an economically and ecologically sustainable agriculture that produces safe and healthy food, maintains the landscape and rural culture and contributes to growth and employment in rural regions. Our farmers need fair competitive conditions within Europe. To achieve this, the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) must continue to provide a reliable framework and be funded at the current level. We want to continue to develop it -without breaking with our proven pillar model. It is essential to maintain direct payments as a basic safeguard for our farms of all shapes and sizes, for both small and large farms. In future, direct payments should also be geared more specifically towards regionally rooted, family-run agriculture and provide greater support for small and medium-sized farms, livestock farming and young farmers." With the CAP, we want to achieve even more for environmental, nature and climate protection as well as animal welfare in the future. We are focusing on cooperation rather than confrontation and on incentives and voluntary action rather than state regulation. To make this affordable for farmers, the measures must be promoted accordingly. Farmers should receive real incentives without being burdened by unnecessary bureaucracy. We will support the digitalization of agriculture. This will enable it to produce in an even more resource-efficient and environmentally friendly way and save on fertilizers and pesticides. We will also strengthen rural areas and regional value chains. We are committed to further harmonization of animal welfare regulations at EU level. We take concerns about the rapidly growing wolf population in Germany and Europe very seriously. That is why the strict protection status of the wolf in European nature conservation law must be changed -also to enable appropriate population regulation. Wolf populations must be considered across borders and not nationally. 2. Our Europe makes us strong We need a strong Europe. The internal and external challenges require a determined European response for prosperity, security and cohesion in the future. 2.1 Our Europe guarantees prosperity Social market economy: Our Europe ensures a strong European economic and social order. Our economic and social order is in systemic competition with other regions of the world. Only with a clear stance and its own model for success can our Europe hold its own in this systemic competition. Our guiding principle and model for success is a liberal basic order based on Christian values -the social market economy. It is the basis for prosperity and security and combines opportunities for the individual with the cohesion of our society. It serves the people. We want to renew it, strengthen it and make it fit for the challenges and changes that lie ahead. of the 21st century. This is the only way it will open up new opportunities for us, our children and grandchildren in the future. European champions: Our Europe adapts EU competition policy to globalization. Functioning and fair competition with a clear regulatory framework is the cornerstone of the social market economy and the European single market as well as a key driver of prosperity. Competition serves the good of the people. It produces new and better products and services. It creates innovation and diversity. It ensures that today's luxury goods become tomorrow's general consumer goods. Competition can also help companies to become successful companies. become "global players". After all, companies can survive better on the global market if they have developed successfully in competition. We want to strengthen competition and put it at the service of people and companies operating in the single market by creating good framework conditions. Above all, this requires lower taxes, less bureaucracy and more support for research and development. In key areas, the emergence of European world market leaders must also be made possible through better cooperation between companies. They must be able to survive on the global market. Free and fair trade: Our Europe sets the rules for globalization. Free trade and globalization are drivers of growth and prosperity. They open up additional sales markets for our companies and help to secure jobs and create new ones. The basis for free trade is open markets and fair rules. We clearly reject protectionism and isolationism. We want effective and rule-based partnerships. The World Trade Organization provides common rules and guidelines for this. We are striving for a new round of negotiations in the World Trade Organization to further reduce international trade barriers. If we open up our common internal market to companies outside the EU, we expect other countries to do the same. They too should open their markets to our European companies, dismantle their trade barriers and not erect any new ones. We want a new attempt at a trade agreement with the USA. We also want to conclude further modern and transparent trade agreements with partners such as Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam and the Mercosur states and implement agreements that have already been negotiated, such as those with Canada, Japan and Singapore. We want to take measures to protect companies in the digital sector from espionage, sabotage and cybercrime. Euro: Our Europe is a stability union. Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and the introduction of the euro are milestones in European integration. We advocate a stability union. The following applies to us: • Stability begins at home. The Member States must therefore be granted as much autonomy and responsibility as possible -especially in budgetary and financial policy. We therefore reject the appointment of a European finance minister. • Liability and responsibility remain in one hand. Each member state is liable for its own debts. We reject the communitization of debt or risks. Because we want a genuine stability union and not a debt and liability union. • Sound public finances are a guarantee for a state capable of acting and for a strong and stable EU. The rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Compact must be strictly adhered to and enforced. Breaches of the stability criteria must have consequences. We therefore want to limit discretionary powers in the deficit procedure and create more sanction options for our Europe. In an emergency, an insolvency code for euro states must be implemented. • Responsibility for social systems and labor market policy must also remain with the Member States. We reject common unemployment insurance. It would lead to permanent transfer payments within the EU and reduce incentives to reduce structural unemployment. • We want to further develop the banking union and the capital markets union from a stability perspective. Existing risks in the banking system must first be reduced. In particular, government bonds should no longer be considered risk-free and banks -just like other forms of investment -should be required to back them with equity. We reject bank bailouts from taxpayers' money. With all changes at European level, the special features of our tried and tested three-pillar system of private banks, public banks and cooperative banks must be retained. • We are committed to the independence of the European Central Bank (ECB) within the scope of its mandate. Because only a strong central bank that is not influenced by politics can ensure an effective monetary policy with the goal of monetary stability. Savers must not be the ones to suffer. Monetary and fiscal policy must be strictly separated. Government financing is not the ECB's task. • We want to further develop the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). To this end, we support the creation of a European Monetary Fund so that the financial stability of our Europe is not dependent on the goodwill of other economic powers. Control by the German Bundestag will remain in place. • We want to better coordinate and harmonize national economic policies. Country-specific recommendations should focus primarily on structural reforms. The structural funds should primarily be used to support reform processes, innovation and economic strength in a more targeted manner. • Cash is freedom in action. We therefore reject the abolition of cash. Our Europe stands for a sound budgetary policy. We want to use EU budget funds responsibly. Budget funds must be used for future tasks that create European added value and benefit European citizens. We will regularly examine which tasks are superfluous and can be dispensed with. Europe should only take action if a standardized Europe-wide approach brings real added value compared to national tasks. However, it is also clear that we need a European Union that is capable of acting. To this end, we will provide it with the financial resources it needs to perform its tasks sensibly and with a sense of proportion. Tax fairness: Our Europe also ensures fair taxation for major international corporations. It is unacceptable for global corporations to use clever strategies to avoid paying taxes. We need fair taxation of the digital economy. All companies should pay taxes. In the EU and internationally, we continue to advocate coordinated solutions based on a virtual permanent establishment. We also need a common corporate tax base so that companies in Europe are taxed according to the same rules as far as possible. The special features of the German corporate landscape and taxation must be adequately taken into account in order to avoid competitive disadvantages for German companies. We want to ensure clarity and legal certainty by modernizing state aid law. We also want to further curb VAT fraud and close tax loopholes. We want to introduce a financial transaction tax in a European context with a broad tax base and a low tax rate. Energy Union: Our Europe ensures a secure energy supply. We want energy to remain safe, clean and affordable. The Europe-wide expansion of low-emission and renewable energies is particularly important to us -not just in individual countries. To this end, we want to network the European energy market more closely and promote innovation. After all, a functioning internal energy market increases the cost efficiency and competitiveness of the energy supply in Europe. Above all, we need even better interconnection of the electricity grid in Europe. This will enable us to better balance the varying availability of renewable energies and make even better use of the mix of different energy sources in Europe. In order to ensure Europe's competitiveness, efficient and effective climate protection and the better dissemination of "green technologies", Europe must work hard for internationally effective pricing of greenhouse gas emissions. One thing is clear: the phase-out of coal and nuclear power must not be replaced by emissions-intensive electricity from other countries. For us, energy security means diversity of supply and transportation routes. Europe must not become dependent on individual countries for its natural gas supply. We are therefore committed to ensuring a broad-based supply. Projects for the future: Our Europe secures key technologies and builds new ones. With an innovation strategy and an innovation budget, our Europe focuses on future projects that serve us all. • We are declaring war on the major widespread diseases. Cancer and Alzheimer's should soon be a thing of the past. We can achieve this by joining forces in Europe. With a master plan, we will use research funds in a targeted manner and bring together medical research and big data. • We want to make Germany and Europe a leading AI location. Artificial intelligence (AI) must serve people; it can make everyday life much easier. One important project is the intelligent house (smart home), which regulates energy consumption independently and efficiently, can improve quality of life and enables older people to live at home for longer. • We want to make Germany and Europe the continent of mobility of tomorrow. Our strong automotive industry should remain the technology leader in the development of sustainable mobility concepts and in autonomous and electric driving. That is why we need our own expertise and capacities in battery cell production. The majority of battery cells installed in Europe still come from Asia. We will change this with our own European battery cell production, taking into account the entire life cycle. We also want to drive forward new forms of mobility such as a European hyperloop. • We want to develop the computer of tomorrow in Germany and Europe and win the global race for the quantum computer. A quantum technology flagship program will develop more powerful computers, tap-proof and tamper-proof data communication and ultra-precise measuring devices. • We want to be at the forefront of aerospace in Germany and Europe. Europe should continue to maintain its independence and strong position in space and space technology. It is good that with Galileo and Copernicus we have established an independent European satellite navigation system under civilian control and an independent earth observation system. This makes us independent of foreign services in important key areas. We are ready to tackle future European space projects and, as Europeans, we also want to be represented on the moon. Digital Europe: Our Europe produces digital champions. We are not resigned to the fact that there are no European companies among the largest digital companies. We want to create the digital world market leaders of the future by strategically promoting future technologies. To this end, we are relying on an innovation budget, support for start-ups through a Future Fund and financing by efficient European banks in the single market. Data is an important resource of the future. To be able to use it, we will develop platforms and tools with which it can be processed effectively, intelligently and securely. European companies are leading the way in the development of the Internet of Things and the next stage of industrial production "Industry 4.0" and should remain so. We want to support young European companies in particular. We need a European digital platform for smart applications and artificial intelligence. We do not want to be digitally dependent on others, but rather have the raw material of this century, data and algorithms, at our own disposal. Only by standing shoulder to shoulder with our European partners can we be competitive in these areas of the future and continue to ensure high-quality work and prosperity in Europe. Digital Single Market: Our Europe is creating a digital, future-proof economic area. We want the Innovation Union: Our Europe has always set standards for progress. Europe is the global market leader in standardization, certification and data protection. Europe must become faster when it comes to digitalization. That is why we are working on a European 5G mobile network and uniform IT data standards for computers and all types of digital devices. An innovation board is to be set up at EU level for the upcoming revision of the General Data Protection Regulation in order to make the basic regulation open to innovation, forward-looking and more user-friendly, especially for SMEs, start-ups and volunteers. This is the only way to secure Europe's competitiveness in the long term. We want to strengthen the start-up culture in Europe. To this end, it is necessary to establish a uniform European start-up definition and thus remove the obstacles for start-ups through regulations and improve the financing of start-ups in a targeted manner. Transport: Our Europe secures the mobility of tomorrow. In order to fully exploit the potential of our common internal market, we need a first-class transport network and the world's most efficient logistics in Europe. We are committed to the sustainable expansion of roads and railways as well as efficient waterways, ports and airports. In addition, we want to achieve closer links between the various national transport networks in Europe. We safeguard individual mobility. Among other things, we are committed to increasing the use of electromobility, public transport and rail. We are committed to maintaining and strengthening the automotive industry as a driver of innovation and guarantor of prosperity and valuable jobs. In the development of new low-emission drive systems we advocate a technology-open approach that sets suitable framework conditions for innovative research. This also includes the development of the clean combustion engine. The ideological rejection of diesel is out of the question for us. We are pursuing the goal of bringing the economy and the environment into harmony -with a sensible and objective approach. 2.2 Our Europe offers security Security and freedom: Our Europe protects its citizens. Only those who are safe can live freely and peacefully with others. People expect the state to guarantee a life in security and freedom -in Germany and in Europe. People who rightly seek refuge here are also entitled to this. Protecting citizens from crime and terror is the central task of both national and European policy. To achieve this, we need a strong and effective Europe in which the police and security authorities work closely together. Asylum: Our Europe brings order and humanity together with uniform standards. Our Europe is committed to its legal and humanitarian obligations. At the same time, we want the number of refugees coming to us to remain low in the long term. Only then can we really help those in need of protection. Where we have found European solutions, we can see that the measures are working. We also want to eliminate false incentives, harmonize asylum seeker benefits across Europe and keep them to a minimum. We rely on European transit centers. There, it must be checked and decided whether someone is in need of protection and may enter the country. Persons who are not entitled to enter the country and persons without grounds for asylum or refugee status must be returned from there. The task of FRONTEX is to prevent illegal migrants from continuing their journey unhindered, to accommodate them in the transit centers and to return them from there. In addition, we want to set up regional reception centers in North Africa. Our goal is a standardized and fast asylum procedure with the possibility to apply for asylum once within the EU. One thing is clear: it must not be possible to apply for asylum in several countries. The basic responsibility of the country of first entry must be retained and a solidarity-based burden-sharing must be ensured. In order to prevent onward travel within Europe, European asylum law must provide for common standards for the recognition of asylum and an EU-wide harmonization of reception conditions. This concerns, among other things, procedures, accommodation and care. We expect all European member states to show solidarity. We want to speed up the procedures for people from safe countries of origin in particular, both here and throughout Europe. Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Georgia must be declared safe countries of origin. In addition, we are concluding preventive refugee agreements with countries in Africa and the Middle East along the lines of the EU agreement with Turkey. We are introducing migration monitoring, including travel movements. This will make migration movements and emerging hotspots visible in an early warning system. Migration: Our Europe is fighting illegal migration. The fight against illegal migration is a joint European task. All European states must live up to their responsibilities. The fight against illegal migration begins with effective action against smuggling gangs and effective protection of Europe's external borders. In future, migrants must already be registered and their identity established there in European transit centers. No one should be allowed to enter without authorization and under no circumstances without papers or clear identification. Border protection: Our Europe protects its borders. Effective external border protection is part of a complete Schengen area. We want to develop the European border agency FRONTEX as quickly as possible into an operational border police force at the European external border. German police officers should participate in the European border police. FRONTEX should grow to at least 10,000 additional border guards with direct intervention rights. FRONTEX needs the powers to enforce the clear rules on border control and entry regulations at Europe's external borders in cooperation with the nation states. The EU must activate the European Entry and Exit System (EES), which was adopted at our insistence, and the European Travel Authorization System (ETIAS), which is currently being developed, as quickly as possible: firstly, so that we know which third-country nationals are in our country and, secondly, to make it easier to put a stop to terrorist threats and smugglers. With these new registers, we are creating a further gain for our security in Germany and in Europe. As long as EU external border protection is not fully guaranteed, we will maintain temporary internal border controls. At the internal borders, we are relying on intelligent surveillance, including by extending the 30 km border area, in order to enable ad hoc checks along travel routes. European FBI: Our Europe fights together against terrorists and organized crime. Criminals and terrorists do not stop at national borders. This is why security authorities must also network internationally in order to operate across national borders. What we need in Europe is a security union. More security in and through Europe also means more security for Germany. We are expanding exchange and partnership programs between security agencies. The European police authority Europol must become a European FBI. It goes without saying that operational police powers will remain with the Member States. Cooperation between justice and customs in the EU and with third countries must be expanded. We place particular emphasis on the fight against cross-border crime. We are committed to compatible European and national data systems for security authorities, both nationally and internationally. We want the security authorities in Europe to be able to intensively exchange and automatically retrieve data on potential threats and dangerous individuals. The data pools of the EURODAC fingerprint identification system, the VISA information system, the Schengen Information System and the INPOL data must be linked in such a way that all available information on visas, migration and security can be accessed by the national authorities. Our national authorities must be given access to this data. 2.3 Our Europe creates peace Peace: Our Europe ensures security and stability. Our Europe is the most successful peace project internally and asserts itself as a force for peace in the world in terms of foreign policy. Our Europe thus makes a decisive contribution to security and stability. We want to pool our civilian and military forces within the framework of the networked approach in order to remain capable of acting independently. Our approach combines the means of diplomacy, defense and development cooperation for preventive, peacemaking and peacekeeping measures. In an age of new global confusion, we must respond to complex crises flexibly and individually. Our Europe will shape an even more responsible international policy. Together with our partners, we are working to preserve a rules-based order. Security and stability in partnership: this will continue to guide us in the future. Foreign policy: Our Europe speaks with one voice and brings its political weight to bear in the world. Europe is unique in the world for its value-driven foreign policy and multilateral solutions. This is particularly true in the United Nations Security Council and in other international organizations. We advocate the creation of an additional, joint permanent seat for the EU on the United Nations Security Council. We must reach common positions in the European Union faster than before. That is why we also want to achieve majority decisions in foreign and security policy and leave the unanimity principle behind us. We advocate the creation of a European Security Council with the involvement of the United Kingdom. A Europe with a strong foreign policy puts aggressors in their place when necessary and does not make itself vulnerable to blackmail. We therefore advocate a European Energy Union and at the same time call for the extension of sanctions against Russia until the Minsk agreements have been fully implemented. We seek cooperation with Russia in areas of common interest, such as disarmament, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the fight against climate change. Even when interests and conflicts differ, our Europe remains in constant discussion, because we always focus first and foremost on diplomatic solutions. Transatlantic relations: Our Europe stands up for the values of the West. Our Europe confidently defends its values and interests in the face of competition between systems and rival world powers. It stands up for the triad of the West: liberal democracy, a social market economy and an open society. We continue to be most closely linked to North America through these common values and interests. We want to revitalize and intensify the transatlantic friendship. And for Europe, this means that we must make a greater contribution to this partnership in the future. Defense union: Our Europe is increasingly taking its fate into its own hands. In terms of defense policy, our Europe relies on transatlantic reassurance within the framework of NATO. This is precisely why we are fully committed to NATO. At the same time, the USA expects us Europeans to take our fate increasingly into our own hands. So the following must apply: Our Europe must be able to defend itself. We will remain transatlantic and at the same time become more European. That is why our Europe will implement joint European armed forces by 2030. In doing so, we want to significantly improve military cooperation between national armed forces and network them more closely. To this end, we want to expand cooperation between existing European armed forces within the framework of permanent structured cooperation. With the help of the European Armaments Agency and the European Defense Fund, we want to develop joint armaments projects and promote arms procurement. We also want to reduce the number of different weapons systems and drive forward the development of common military capabilities and new technologies. In this way, our Europe will avoid unnecessary expenditure, achieve better defense capabilities and gradually develop a common security culture and common European arms export guidelines. As Europeans, we need our own military capabilities in order to be able to react quickly and purposefully to threats in the immediate vicinity. Together with European partners who are willing and able to do so, we want to set up a European rapid reaction force. Our Europe must also be able to provide an effective response to new threats from the internet. That is why we are building a powerful cyber brigade over the next two years to successfully fend off cyber attacks, terrorism, threats to critical infrastructure and disinformation across Europe and to develop offensive capabilities ourselves. Development cooperation: Our Europe creates prospects on the ground. Our Europe is committed to development cooperation on an equal footing. One of the main tasks of networked foreign policy in times of increasing global migration is also to combat the causes of flight. We want people on the ground to have prospects for their lives. Our Europe and its member states already provide half of the world's national development aid. With the Marshall Plan with Africa, we are setting a very special focus. We are investing in a sustainable development policy in line with the 2030 Agenda and creating opportunities for growth and jobs through private investment and fair trade agreements. Our Europe is committed to the peace process in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan and supports Syria's neighboring countries, which have taken in millions of refugees. 3. Our Europe sticks together Identity: Our Europe protects its values. Our values and our common European, occidental culture are based on the Christian view of humanity and are characterized by enlightenment and humanism. These commonalities are important foundations for the European unification process. The cultural strength of our Europe arises from the interplay between a common European identity and the cultural diversity of the individual Member States. This cultural strength is characterized by a deep-rooted understanding of tolerance and the appreciation of every person. We Europeans put people at the center. We are proud of the European pillars of democracy, human rights, solidarity, freedom and democracy. Rule of law. We want to pay particular attention to the right to self-determination of women and girls. Because a consistent equality policy is part of our European understanding. Our Europe stands for diversity internally and unity externally. In order to guarantee our Europe-wide freedom and the rule of law in all EU member states, these are to be regularly reviewed by an independent council of experts for each member state in future. In the event of serious, proven violations, the state concerned will be brought before the European Court of Justice. In the event of a conviction, there must be sanctions. We want to end the unanimity principle in this area. In future, the imposition of such sanctions should only be stopped by a majority decision of the European Parliament or the Council of Ministers. Democracy: Our Europe is opening a new chapter. The European Parliament is the heart of our European democracy. It is the only institution that is directly elected by EU citizens. We want to strengthen European democracy, promote transparency and put Europe in the hands of the people. That is why we introduced the Spitzenkandidaten process at the last European elections: The lead candidate of the European party families who can rally the majority of MEPs in the European Parliament behind him or her must become President of the European Commission. In our democratic Europe, citizens must know who they are voting for in the election. The result of the Spitzenkandidaten process is binding for us. We will do everything in our power to ensure that Manfred Weber, our joint lead candidate from the CDU, CSU and the European People's Party (EPP), becomes the next President of the European Commission. Like the national parliaments, the European Parliament must also have the right to initiate legislation. We therefore advocate the European Parliament's right of initiative in order to strengthen European democracy. Furthermore, it is important to us that the European Parliament can work as efficiently as possible. To this end, it should submit proposals. Close to the people: Our Europe listens to the people. Our Europe belongs to its citizens. Our Europe must always find new answers to the question of how politics in Europe can be brought closer to the citizens and made more efficient. Citizens can rely on this: The EU Member States will continue to decide what Europe does and which tasks remain nationally regulated. A task should only be carried out by a higher level if this leads to real added value and a lower level cannot do it just as well or even better. It is clear to us, for example, that issues relating to school education and social security should also be dealt with at national level. will not be decided in Europe in future, but in the EU member states. Our Europe is guided by the principle of subsidiarity. We want to ease the burden on citizens and companies and place particular emphasis on reducing bureaucracy. Our Europe ensures that -as is customary in nation states -legislative proposals that have not been passed by the end of a legislative period of the European Parliament must be reintroduced. This makes it possible to check whether legislative initiatives from previous legislative periods are still necessary at all or at least need to be adapted in terms of time. Our Europe is setting up an independent European Regulatory Scrutiny Board: its task is to assess the costs of bureaucracy and compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in advance of new regulations at all levels and to effectively limit costs. It advises the EU institutions on better regulation -with less bureaucracy. We advocate appropriate taxation of EU officials. Strong member states: Our Europe strengthens European democracy together with the national parliaments. Europe must serve the interests of its citizens, regions and member states. Regional, national and European interests must not be contradictory. Our Europe strengthens the role of national parliaments. The number of regulations submitted by the European Commission has already fallen sharply in recent years. Our Europe will consistently pursue this path and, together with the national parliaments, further develop the system of reprimands by the national parliaments: If the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are violated, we want to expand the possibility of reprimand, make it more manageable and remove hurdles to this. We also want to make use of leeway when transposing EU regulations into national legislation: In national transposition, we ensure 1:1 implementation for less bureaucracy. Europe's strength lies in the diversity of its regions. People feel at home in the towns and villages. This is where they feel at home. Our Europe respects the voice of the municipalities and regions. That is why we are committed to strengthening the Committee of the Regions and Local Authorities. Strong together: Our Europe creates new cohesion. Our Europe has achieved a great deal in the past through the cooperation of all its member states, overcoming crises and demonstrating strength together. Only as a strong Union can Europe assert itself in a globalized world. Only together can we guarantee our common goals of prosperity, stability and peace for all our citizens. Close and trusting cooperation with all partners in the European Union is important to us. Every member state, regardless of whether it is large or small, whether in the north, south, east or west, has a right to find its place in the common European house and to contribute its proposals. It is important to us to work closely with our partners in Eastern and Central Europe on an equal footing. A particular example of European cooperation was and is the Franco-German partnership, which stood at the beginning of the European path. We want to continue to coordinate closely on European policy issues in the future. Living European cohesion in our everyday lives is particularly important. We want to strengthen and expand European cooperation in border regions in particular because this is where Europe can be experienced in everyday life. We must find solutions that are suitable for everyday use for people in border regions -whether on the way to kindergarten, to work or back home. Our Europe does not tolerate anti-Semitic incitement. Our Europe fights anti-Semitism in all its forms. We will establish a European pact against anti-Semitism. We will adopt the working definition of anti-Semitism of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA) and want it to be adopted by all member states. Israel is an important and friendly partner of Germany and Europe. We stand by Israel's right to exist. Brexit: Our Europe wants the UK to find its way back to the center of Europe. We regret the planned withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Our Europe is keeping the door to the European Union open for the United Kingdom. Our Europe of good partnership will continue to work closely and trustingly with the UK in the future. However, we reject "cherry-picking". No country can enjoy the benefits of the European Union without fulfilling the obligations that come with it. In the context of future trade and economic relations, we are striving for the closest possible connection between our mutual markets without jeopardizing the functioning of our internal market. The UK should remain part of our unique community of values. Enlargement: Our Europe knows its borders. For us, the principle applies: deepening before enlargement. We ensure that our Europe remains stable and successful. The internal cohesion of the European Union must not be weakened by the accession of new members. Based on our experience with previous accession processes, we do not believe that it is possible to admit further countries in the next five years. In particular, there must be no compromise on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organized crime. Candidate countries can only join the EU if they can fully and permanently meet the political and economic accession criteria. We are committed to continuing to bind the countries of the Western Balkans to the European Union. Our Europe also knows its limits. We will not allow Turkey to become a full member of the EU. Instead of accession, we will agree a close partnership with Turkey. We are fighting for our Europe! We are fighting against those who threaten Europe. On the left of the political camp, forces are striving for redistribution and bans. They want a different Europe! On the other side of the spectrum, the forces of right-wing populism and destructive nationalism are forming, threatening Europe and thus the greatest project for peace and prosperity that our continent has ever known. The international situation is also challenging Europe: In terms of security, diplomacy, innovation and the protection of our values in international competition, Europe needs a clear course! We are fighting for a Europe that serves its citizens, makes us strong and holds us together. Europe is in the hands of the people on May 26. They will decide what happens to Europe. We as the CDU and CSU, together with our lead candidate Manfred Weber, are making the people a civic offer -you can rely on the Union! 