26th Party Congress of the CDU Germany April 5, 2014 -Messe Berlin 26th Party Congress of the CDU Germany April 5, 2014 -Messe Berlin "Successful together inEurope." European policy resolution of the 26th party conference of the CDU Germany Successful together in Europe. Preamble For a strong Germany in a strong Europe 1. Germany's future in Europe 1.1 Europe of values -what unites us 1.2 Good partnerships - the key to success 1.3 Citizens' Europe -a Europe close to the people 1.4 Good governance in Europe -improving decision-making processes 2. Securing Europe's prosperity Stable euro, opening up sustainable growth opportunities, creating employment 2.1 Social market economy, internal market and free trade Foundation for a competitive Europe 2.2 Stable euro and solid budgets - a strong Europe 2.3 Financial market regulation -strict and effective 2.4 SMEs and industry -for employment and prosperity 2.5 European labor market: seizing the opportunities of freedom of movement Prevent abusive immigration into social security systems 2.6 Research -investing in Europe's future 2.7 Transport -we make Europe mobile 2.8 European energy supply -stronger together 2.9 Making Europe fit for the digital future 3. Europe worth living in 3.1 Strengthening educational cooperation -opening up new opportunities 3.2 Sustainable and competitive agriculture and forestry -secure supply 3.3 Shared responsibility -European environmental and climate policy 3.4 Consumer protection and good food Strengthening trust in markets and products 3.5 Health in Europe -serving the people 3.6 City, country, Europe -regional policy for a strong homeland 3.7 Diversity in culture and media -Europe's wealth 3.8 An intergenerational Europe -shaping demographic change 3.9 People with disabilities -for good cooperation 3.10 Volunteering and civic participation -participation and responsibility 3.11 Churches and religious communities -respecting faith, living values 3.12 Displaced persons and national minorities -living diversity 4. Europe: Living in freedom and security 4.1 Effectively combating cross-border and organized crime 4.2 Open internal borders -guarantee secure external borders 4.3 Common refugee and asylum policy -helping those in need of protection 4.4 Responsible data policy -protecting privacy 4.5 Increase network security -freedom in a secure network 5. Europe's responsibility in the world 5.1 European foreign and security policy worldwide for peace and human rights 5.2 Consolidation before enlargement -strengthening Europe's cohesion 5.3 European Neighborhood Policy -for democracy, stability and prosperity 5.4 Sustainable development -global justice Preamble For a strong Germany in a strong Europe The 2014 European elections will set the course for the Europe of tomorrow. The people of the European Union will vote on how they want to live in the future. The international financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone member states have shown us this: Germany, too, will only do well in the long term if Europe does well. Europe is a unique global project of shared values and peace. We Germans can no longer imagine Germany without the European Union. We will only be able to meet the upcoming challenges of an increasingly intertwined world in a united and strong Europe. If we want to preserve our values, our way of life, our prosperity and our social achievements, we need a strong Europe that is capable of acting. We want a Europe that is committed to its values and to its Western Christian roots. Our policies are guided by the Christian view of humanity. Since 2009, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in which the European Union commits itself to its spiritual, religious and moral heritage, has been legally binding for the work of the EU institutions. This is an important step for the Europe of values. In legal practice, however, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be brought even more to life. With our commitment to tolerance, the European Union is contributing to a more peaceful coexistence between the regions and religions of the world. A strong and self-confident Europe is our alternative to regimes based on oppression, fanaticism and hatred in other parts of the world. The CDU, especially with its Federal Chancellors Konrad Adenauer, Helmut Kohl and Angela Merkel, consistently stands for this united Europe, through which Germans can live in unity, justice and freedom. That is why we Christian Democrats are renewing and reaffirming our commitment to Europe with full conviction. In the elections to the European Parliament, we are fighting resolutely for a strong and competitive Europe. Together with our sister parties in the European People's Party (EPP), we want to set the right course for this in the European Parliament over the next five years. We want people in all parts of the European Union to be better off in 2019 than they are today. Our goal is for Europe to emerge from the crisis stronger than Germany. With a globally competitive industry, stable finances in all member states and more investment in the future, we can achieve this goal. We know that further efforts are needed to achieve this. But if we take these steps together, we will make Germany and Europe fit for the future. We want to work together with the people of Germany and Europe to achieve this. In this program, we describe what is important to us in Europe and what we want to do in the German and European interest over the next five years. The European Parliament plays a particularly important role in this. In a strong parliament, we want to represent our interests and convictions in Europe with a strong German voice. 1. Germany's future in Europe 1.1 Europe of values -what unites us Freedom, democracy and social security are inextricably linked for us in Europe. The 500 million inhabitants of the largest binThe majority of the world's most important markets today live in security and enjoy a high standard of living. Europe radiates stability and prosperity far beyond its borders. Our everyday life in Germany and Europe knows no walls and no barriers. We can travel freely, live, learn and work anywhere. More and more people are taking advantage of these opportunities. For many younger people, it has become a matter of course to spend part of their education or working life in another European country. 100 years after the First World War, 75 years after the catastrophe of the Second World War and 25 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of the Cold War, the reunification of Germany and the entire European continent after decades of division, it is time to once again say clearly and proudly: Europe is the lesson learned from the mistakes of the first half of the 20th century. Europe is the answer to the great challenges of the 21st century! This obliges us to continue resolutely on the path of European unification and to continue to work for a peaceful and democratic Europe. For us, this task is both a matter of reason and a matter of the heart. We face major challenges in the coming years. Of the more than seven billion people in the world today, only one in a hundred lives in Germany. The European Union, with its more than 500 million people, still represents around seven percent of the world's population. World population. By 2050, the global population will have grown to over nine billion people, while the German and European populations continue to decline. In an increasingly globalized world, we can only effectively represent our values and interests together as Europeans. That is why the CDU wants a strong European Union. Together, we want to enforce democracy, the rule of law and the social market economy internationally. To achieve this, we need the necessary scope for action in Europe with the corresponding competences. Europe is and will remain crucial if we are to master the challenges of the future. Only if we Europeans speak with one voice will we be heard worldwide in the future. 1.2 Good partnerships -the key to success Good and trusting cooperation between all EU member states is the key to joint success. We want to work with all partners to find ways to strengthen Europe. Because Europe can only succeed together, regardless of the size of a member state. But we also know that European integration always needs a German-French engine. That is why the partnership with our neighbor is of particular importance. Franco-German friendship is unique in its breadth and depth. As strong economic nations, our countries have a special interest, but also special opportunities to further advance European unification. We want to continue to live up to this responsibility in the future through joint initiatives in the interests of Europe. Just as Airbus, for example, has become a success as a joint European project, we also want to develop new German-French technology projects, from space research to the further development of the high-speed rail network. We want to further deepen our partnership with our neighbor Poland and use the diverse relationships to expand personal encounters between people and further develop the lively economic relations. Germany will continue to expand trilateral cooperation with France and Poland (Weimar Triangle) in order to give new impetus to European unification. 1.3 Citizens' Europe -a Europe close to the people Our Europe must become more of a people's Europe. We are working for a Europe that offers people opportunities for their professional and personal well-being. To this end, we promote exchanges between our countries and make it easier for people to come together. We are therefore committed to language learning and exchange programs for young people, employees, students and researchers in Europe. We will continue to intensively promote the Franco-German Youth Office and the German-Polish Youth Office as key elements of European understanding. We want to make Europe tangible for young people. Therefore, school trips should also convey the European idea. Knowledge of the language and culture of other European countries promotes friendships across borders more easily. We want to initiate new partnerships between German and European cities, districts, municipalities and regions and breathe new life into existing ones in order to strengthen the European idea and mutual understanding in direct encounters between people. The aim must be to rekindle people's enthusiasm for the European idea. Although more and more citizens take Europe for granted in their everyday lives, the European Union with its numerous authorities seems to many citizens to be a distant entity that has little to do with the reality of their personal lives. We therefore want to use our policies to restore citizens' trust in the European Union. We want a Europe that serves its citizens. In order to promote the understanding of European politics among EU citizens, we would like to see greater media coverage in order to create a European public sphere. 1.4 Good governance in Europe -improving decision-making processes Our guiding principle is a vibrant Europe that is close to its citizens, safeguards the quality of life in the regions and respects the different ways of life. For us, not every task in Europe is also a task for Europe. Europe must not get bogged down, but must concentrate on those tasks that can only be accomplished on a pan-European basis. The CDU stands for upholding the principle of subsidiarity in Europe. We have successfully prevented the regulation of oil cans in restaurants or parasols in beer gardens and will also campaign against the over-regulation of shower heads. We want the European Union to only take action if it can act more effectively than the member states with their regions and municipalities. However, more Europe does not necessarily mean that the highest standard becomes the benchmark for all. The individual Member States must not be overburdened. Our Basic Law prohibits the direct intervention of the federal government in the municipalities. This must also apply to the EU. The EU Treaty itself provides for the explicit recognition of local and regional self-government. (Europe of the Regions). It has also submitted to the national parliaments The national parliaments are given the opportunity to reprimand violations of the principle of subsidiarity. National parliaments must therefore cooperate more closely in order to agree on a common position in the necessary cases. We need an effective regulatory brake: if a qualified number of national parliaments identify a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, the European Parliament or the national governments should exercise their right to terminate the legislative process via the Council of Ministers. The European Union's decision-making processes must be streamlined and made more comprehensible. We therefore want to simplify EU legislation and introduce an independent regulatory impact assessment as well as reorganize the responsibilities between the European Union and its member states where necessary. In order to strengthen a citizen-oriented and democratically constituted political union, it must therefore also be possible to return responsibilities to the national level. The new European Commission must focus its legislative proposals on the truly necessary political tasks. As legislators, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers must also pursue this goal. The European Parliament and the European Council should commit the Commission President to this goal before his election. We also call for the new European Commission to have a limited number of Vice-Presidents. The individual specialist responsibilities should be bundled under them and the other EU Commissioners should report to them. The Commission needs an efficient college with clear competences and responsibilities. In the long term, we want to move towards the direct election of the Commission President. We are committed to a Europe-wide standardized European Parliament election procedure with a blocking clause. The decision on the transfer of responsibilities from the national level to the European level must remain with the EU member states. The CDU also wants to avoid regulations that are difficult to understand and manage. For this reason, we prefer EU law to intergovernmental agreements, which are sometimes necessary as a transitional solution, when European regulation is necessary in the sense of the Community method. European policy decisions often have a profound impact on citizens' lives. That is why we want to enter into an even closer dialog with them about the future shape of Europe. It is therefore important for the acceptance of Europe to strengthen democratic legitimacy and make decisions more comprehensible. Our aim is to strengthen the European Parliament by giving it its own right of initiative: Not only the Commission, but also the MEPs elected by the citizens of Europe should be able to submit their own legislative proposals. The EU treaties must also reflect the growing European cooperation. The necessary deepening of economic policy coordination in the eurozone and the establishment of a banking union are examples of closer cooperation that will require adjustments to the treaties. 2. Securing Europe's prosperity -stable euro, opening up sustainable growth opportunities, creating employment We want Europe to continue to play a leading role in global competition. This is the only way to ensure that many of the freedoms, security and prosperity we enjoy in our everyday lives will continue to be possible in the future. Today, the citizens of the European Union make a considerable contribution to prosperity and social security: although only seven percent of the world's population live in the European Union, we Europeans produce 25 percent of the world's gross domestic product and provide 50 percent of all social benefits in the world. At the same time, 90 percent of global growth today takes place outside Europe. These figures reflect the challenge that we Europeans will face together in the future. We must set the course in such a way that we can continue to achieve our current standard of living in the future and secure it in the long term through sound finances, future investments and growth. This will also provide us with the best basis for creating jobs and overcoming youth unemployment. In 2009, the year of the European elections, the international financial and economic crisis hit Germany and Europe hard. Germany experienced the worst economic slump since the Second World War. Our country has overcome this crisis impressively. Our economic strength has grown by almost 10 percent since 2009 and never before have so many people been employed in our country. We have enshrined the debt brake in the Basic Law and have been reducing new borrowing for years. The federal budget for 2015 is expected to be completely free of new debt. This is a success that no federal government has achieved for 40 years. This means that we are not only complying with our national debt brake ahead of schedule, but also are also a positive example for other countries. Europe also went through difficult years during this period. The deep crisis of confidence resulting from the debt crisis was a timely wake-up call. Since 2010, the crisis has revealed in some eurozone countries that economic strength on credit is not sustainable. Today, we in Europe have made good progress on the path to stability and growth. Together with our European partners, we have made great efforts and have been able to stabilize the eurozone in particular. We have strengthened the foundations of the euro, identified and rectified weaknesses in the introduction of the euro, strengthened the Stability and Growth Pact and added the Fiscal Compact. The permanent European bailout fund ESM works. The concept "Helping people to help themselves" is working -support and assistance as well as structural reforms in the affected countries and consolidation of finances are two sides of the same coin. As a result, there have already been tangible successes: Ireland and Spain are two countries that are reaping the rewards of their reform course and leaving the European aid programs. There are also noticeable improvements in Portugal, Cyprus and Greece. We are also seeing great progress in the development of a stable and responsible financial system. We have launched the European banking union and introduced new or stricter regulations for numerous areas of activity and products on the financial markets. For example, rating agencies are monitored more closely, derivatives trading has become more transparent and banks must hold more equity capital with which they themselves are liable. There are now also stricter limits on the remuneration of their managers. In this way, we want to put a stop to salary excesses that are linked to the short-term success of the bank in future. It is fundamentally wrong and does not correspond to our image of a social market economy if salaried managers -in the financial industry or outside it -can achieve extremely high incomes with reckless transactions without having to be liable for losses from these transactions in return. Because we acted decisively and prudently, the euro continues to be a globally valued currency. Alongside the US dollar, it is now the most important currency in the world. Our common currency also remains attractive for the newer EU member states -Latvia became the 18th member of the eurozone on January 1, 2014. To keep it that way, we will continue to need sound national budgets in the future. Every EU member state is responsible for this. The Maastricht criteria remain valid and necessary. We are firmly opposed to debt mutualization. National decision-making powers and liability belong together. National decisions on budgets and transnational, joint liability for the consequences of these decisions are incompatible. We therefore reject Eurobonds and debt redemption funds. 2.1 Social market economy, internal market and free trade Foundations for a competitive Europe Our guiding principle for Germany and Europe is the social market economy. It enables prosperity and social security. Because it is based on three pillars: Efficient, responsible citizens, high-performance companies and a reliable, effective state. A social market economy means does not patronize citizens, but trusts them to do something. This is how SoThe social market economy uniquely combines the advantages of a market economy with a commitment to social justice and ecological responsibility. It combines performance, responsibility and solidarity. It is therefore the best economic system for free people in a society based on solidarity. European single market -integrated into global free trade With competitive products and services, Europe can continue to be successful worldwide in the future. To achieve this, we need fair and functioning competition, not the isolation of markets and industries. The European Single Market is so successful because it has created uniform competitive conditions for companies throughout Europe: From 150,000 different national industrial and technical standards, the European Single Market has created around 19,000 reliable EU standards -a significant relief for export-oriented SMEs. A large number of different national patents have been transformed into European patent protection. Confusing national transfer and fee systems became a uniform European payment area. Former state monopolies have been transformed into countless new companies through the liberalization of energy, postal and telecommunications services and railroads, which have created thousands of competitive jobs. Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and International Free Trade The CDU wants to dismantle trade restrictions worldwide and promote international trade. strengthen free trade. We therefore welcome the progress made in the Doha Round at the end of 2013. We want it to be continued so that a 14 further opening of markets and greater involvement of developing countries in world trade. We want to expand the success story of the EU single market to include a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) with the USA. A North Atlantic free trade zone creates the world's largest economic area. This will ensure growth and employment on both sides of the Atlantic. Proven employee, consumer, data and environmental protection standards in the EU must form the basis for this. We are also committed to social standards, such as the core labour standards of the International Labor Organization, in European Union trade agreements. We also see it as our duty to protect cultural and linguistic diversity. 2.2 Stable euro and solid budgets -a strong Europe The eurozone is of central importance for our economy and our jobs. Almost 40 percent of German exports go to eurozone countries. The euro itself is also a currency that is in demand worldwide: two thirds of all German exports to countries outside the EU are paid for in euros. For small and medium-sized companies in particular, this makes international business much easier. Thanks to the euro, they no longer have to deal with a confusing number of exchange and conversion rates and complicated currency hedging transactions. Our companies can therefore concentrate on the essentials: manufacturing outstanding products that are in demand worldwide. In doing so, they create secure jobs and make a decisive contribution to the prosperity of our country. Europe needs a stable currency The euro strengthens the economy and makes Germany more competitive internationally. Both are key prerequisites for millions of well-paid jobs and our overall prosperity. However, the euro also creates political stability by bringing Europe closer together internally and adopting common positions externally. The euro is therefore more than just a currency. It is a major joint project and indispensable for a good future for Europe. A policy that turns away from the euro and calls for a return to national currencies or new experiments is not only backward-looking, but economically and politically completely irresponsible: it jeopardizes our economic prosperity, the newly acquired freedoms such as a Europe without barriers and the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of Europe. That is why we will continue to work for a strong euro and stable prices in the future. The independence of the European Central Bank and its responsibility for monetary stability are essential for a stable currency. It has ensured that a high degree of price stability and purchasing power has prevailed even during the crisis. Prices in Germany have been more stable since the introduction of the euro than in the days of the Deutsche Mark. The value of the euro against the US dollar has also risen significantly over the past 13 years. To ensure that the euro remains strong, we advocate the further reduction of new debt, balanced budgets in all EU member states and strict adherence to national debt brakes. We advocate an independent European Central Bank. The central bank's mandate to act results from the ECB Statute. We want all states that have joined the Eu ro, also defend it together. After all, a common currency is an indispensable instrument in international trade and global monetary policy. Solidarity for solidity We are committed to solidarity with our European partners. That is why we support eurozone countries that are unable to emerge from the crisis on their own. We want them to be able to stand on their own two feet again quickly. In doing so, we are acting according to the principle of "helping countries to help themselves": each country must first help itself before it can receive support from the rescue package. Another prerequisite is that the country must be able to bear its debts alone in the long term. However, solidarity-based aid can only be useful if the crisis countries work consistently to eliminate the causes. Aid may therefore only be granted in return for strict conditions. This includes the obligation to reduce mountains of debt and increase their own competitiveness through reforms and future investments in education, research and technology. The troika of the European Central Bank, European Commission and International Monetary Fund supports and monitors the countries in their reform efforts. Their work is indispensable. The crisis is an opportunity for the affected countries to tackle overdue economic and social policy reforms. The financial and economic policy conditions are necessary to put the crisis countries on a sustainable growth path. This is the only way we can help the affected countries to achieve real growth in the long term and thus prosperity for their citizens. the future. The success stories of Ireland and Spain show that the approach we have is the right way out of the crisis. Some Central and Eastern European countries have also proven in recent years that a consistent reform policy leads to stable growth. Reforms for greater competitiveness Many people in the crisis countries still have to make considerable sacrifices for the flawed policies of previous years in their countries. The high unemployment rate among young people in Europe is particularly depressing. However, it is precisely them who are not responsible for the misguided developments and excessive spending policies of the past. The burden of adjustment must therefore be shared fairly. Europe is therefore all the more obliged to take strong action now. The economic and financial policy mistakes of the pre-crisis years must be fundamentally rectified. This requires reforms not only in the crisis countries, but also in the EU and the eurozone itself. Better coordination of economic policy We therefore want the reforms adopted in recent years as part of the Stability and Growth Pact to be implemented consistently. We also need greater coordination in the economic policies of the eurozone countries in order to create an economic and monetary union that is permanently crisis-proof. To this end, we must reduce the differences in economic strength between the countries of the monetary union by implementing the necessary reforms in all eurozone countries and coordinating them earlier and better between all eurozone countries in future. As far as national responsibilities are concerned , we want to achieve this with binding contractual agreements between the member states and the European Commission. The EU states should the European Commission as part of the European Semester. sion to agree on concrete measures to improve their situation. Our aim is to strengthen the weak and make the performance of the best the benchmark for all. We vigorously oppose penalizing those who are already successful today. We want the euro countries to cooperate better in all areas of economic policy in the future. To achieve this, we must adapt the EU treaties in the long term. The opportunities for parliamentary consultation within the European Parliament must also be strengthened. This is the only way we can anchor procedures and institutions democratically. We will maintain the unity of the EU in all measures for closer cooperation between the euro countries. We continue to want the common EU internal market for eurozone and non-eurozone countries. It is also clear that the door to the eurozone will continue to be open to all EU member states that meet the necessary criteria and are capable of complying with them. No debt union, no transfer union National responsibility for the budget and transnational joint liability are incompatible. As long as each state decides on its own income and expenditure within the framework of its budgetary policy, a joint liability scheme for sovereign debt is irresponsible. There will be no communitization of debt with the CDU. We therefore reject euro bonds, debt redemption funds or a tax-financed bank resolution fund, as called for by others. A joint liability of all euro countries for sovereign debt without decision-making powers would remove any incentive for reforms. In a debt union, everyone ends up pandering to the weakest. For us, however, the The strongest should be the benchmark. Joint liability requires a joint budgetary and financial policy. We are still a long way from achieving this. Strict compliance with budget rules The high national debt of the euro countries must be reduced further. This is one of the lessons learned in recent years. In a common currency, not everyone can run up as much debt as they want if the community as a whole is not to be jeopardized. It is therefore necessary that we monitor the budgets and debt development in the individual euro countries more closely in future. Because only with sound budgets can we create sustainable growth in all member states of the monetary union. We must consistently enforce the new rules that we have created with the strengthened Stability and Growth Pact and the European Fiscal Treaty. Anyone who violates the agreed limits of the Stability and Growth Pact must expect sanctions. We want to further strengthen the European Commission's ability to monitor national budgets. The Commission must be able to reject budgets that do not comply with the EU debt criteria. Economical budget management -priority for investments in the future We want the EU to use taxpayers' money sparingly and only spend it on tasks that move Europe forward. When the Multiannual Financial Framework is reviewed in 2016, the EU budget must therefore focus even more strongly on growth, employment and innovation. Automatically increasing expenditure must also at European level. Sound finances are one side of economic success. The other side is sensible investment in the future. The CDU is therefore strongly committed to ensuring that the pact for growth and employment concluded in 2012 is implemented. Together with the Fiscal Compact, it is a central component of our policy for sustainable growth. We also want to ensure that European Union funding is more strongly focused on projects that increase competitiveness and create jobs. This applies in particular to measures to combat the high levels of youth unemployment in many European crisis countries. Combating tax fraud and tax avoidance Every taxpayer must pay their share of the tax revenue. Anyone who evades taxes or avoids tax payments unfairly is not only defrauding the state, but society as a whole. That is why we in Germany have massively tightened the laws against tax evasion and have ensured that tax havens can be drained through better international cooperation by means of numerous international agreements. We will continue to fight resolutely against tax fraud and aggressive tax avoidance strategies. In a world of open borders, we need greater cooperation in Europe. To ensure that individual citizens cannot evade their tax obligations in one country at the expense of the community of honest taxpayers, we want the automatic exchange of tax information without ifs and buts between all European countries and beyond internationally. We will work with our European partners to jointly reduce the scope for structuring tax law. Above all, we want to prevent international companies from creating tax advantages for themselves by cleverly exploiting the Europe-wide freedom of establishment and the differences in taxation in Europe. We believe that the reverse charge mechanism is a good way of consistently combating European VAT carousel fraud. Under this procedure, the tax liability for VAT is transferred from the service provider to the customer under certain conditions. We will push ahead with European regulations to improve and simplify tax law, in particular through a Europe-wide common corporate tax base. Efficient prosecution of cross-border financial crimes The European Commission has proposed the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO). This is to prosecute "criminal offenses against the financial interests of the EU" in the EU. We are open to this proposal. It is also in the interests of German taxpayers to be able to keep a closer eye on the handling of EU funds in some other member states in future. The prerequisite for us is that, in accordance with the principle of proportionality and the principle of subsidiarity, national prosecution must remain the rule. We will therefore pay close attention to ensuring that jurisdiction is clearly and legally defined and that no duplicate structures are created. In addition It must be ensured that there are neither gaps in criminal prosecution nor duplication of proceedings. 2.3 Financial market regulation -strict and effective A social market economy means that the economy must serve people. We also want to enforce this for the financial markets. Firstly, we believe that the connection between decision and liability must apply to the financial market in particular. Anyone who wants the freedom to make high profits from risky transactions must also be liable if things go wrong. Secondly, we want rules for every product and every player on every financial market. We have made good progress in establishing these rules. Germany is not only a pioneer in national implementation, but also a driving force in Europe. We have successfully campaigned for uniform European minimum standards in national deposit protection. We want to preserve our tried-and-tested German system, which goes beyond the European minimum requirements. Europe as a whole benefits if there is functioning competition for the best solution in the interests of savers above the minimum standards. We also do not want savers in Germany to be liable for deposits in other countries. Our goal is strict rules for the financial markets that savers and investors can rely on. It is not important that there are a particularly large number of rules. What is important is that the rules are effective. That is why we will pay particular attention to whether new regulations are necessary and effective. We also want the ECB and the European banking supervision of the various regulatory measures practicability and accuracy. We therefore want to review the rules not only when they are introduced, but also on an ongoing basis and also move away from rules that have not proven their worth. We want to maintain the tried and tested universal banking system and work together in Europe to prevent financial market players from shirking their responsibilities by shifting to the shadow banking sector. We do not want special purpose vehicles, money market funds or hedge funds to conduct traditional banking business outside the regulated banking sector, otherwise new risks will arise that all current and future regulatory measures are designed to avoid. This is because a solid banking system guarantees the financing of our SMEs in particular. The banks should provide them with the necessary financial products so that SMEs do not have to resort to unsafe products outside the regulated and secure system. We will continue to work to ensure that national characteristics are taken into account in European financial market regulations. This includes our tried and tested three-pillar system of private banks, cooperative banks and savings banks. Introduce a financial transaction tax Our aim is to implement a financial transaction tax in Europe and worldwide. To this end, together with ten other countries in Europe, we have agreed to introduce a corresponding tax as quickly as possible. Financial transactions -like other services -should be subject to effective taxation. When designing the tax, we want to avoid that investors move to other financial centers. In doing so, it is important to The aim is to assess the impact of the tax on pension instruments, small investors and the real economy and to avoid negative consequences. During implementation, we will also ensure that distortions of competition are avoided and the interests of Germany as a financial center are safeguarded. Only as a strong and competitive financial center can Germany continue to play an active role in shaping the regulation of international financial markets. European banking union The heart of European financial market regulation is the establishment of the banking union. We have seen how states were so overwhelmed by the task of managing banking crises that they ended up getting into difficulties themselves. We want to break this vicious circle of sovereign and bank failures. In doing so, we are also acting in the interests of taxpayers so that they are no longer called upon to bail out banks. Once the banking union is complete, there will be uniform rules for large banks in Europe, including their resolution in the event of a crisis. We will create joint European institutions to monitor and enforce the rules. We will set up a central European supervisory authority at the European Central Bank for the large, systemically important banks. We must succeed in structuring the ECB's supervisory and control functions for the banking union independently of the ECB's monetary policy mandate. For the other financial institutions, not least the regional savings banks and cooperative banks, the tried and tested banking supervision will remain in place. The European supervision The European Commission will ensure compliance with the new rules in the eurozone regardless of national sensitivities. There will also be a unified European resolution mechanism. Its task will be to close failing banks in such a way that there is no risk of contagion for the financial system as a whole and the taxpayer is spared. First of all, managers, bank owners and large investors must be bailed out to an appropriate extent. If this is not enough, a resolution fund into which the banks themselves have previously paid will step in. We are examining how to deal with the risks of government bonds within bank balance sheets in future. 2.4 SMEs and industry -for employment and prosperity Strong companies in the SME, industrial and service sectors that can hold their own in international competition ensure good jobs and prosperity. If new products and jobs are to be created from ideas, we need capable and well-trained employees. And we also need people who are prepared to take on entrepreneurial responsibility and personal risks. We want to support them in developing their business ideas into companies and creating jobs. This also includes a vibrant, opportunity-rich start-up culture in Germany and Europe. Strengthening Europe as a business location We support the EU Commission's goal of 20 percent of European economic output being generated in the manufacturing sector again by 2020. Our balanced economic structure in Germany has given us strength during the global financial market and economic crisis. With our strong SME sector and our efficient industry In Germany, we have overcome the crisis faster and better than in other countries. other countries. We want to strengthen Europe as a competitive location for industry, services and SMEs and thus enable future prosperity in Europe. We support the EU Commission's plan to subject all legislative proposals to a competition check. Secure corporate financing Anyone who wants to set up and develop a company needs easily accessible and secure financing. In this sense, the persistently high borrowing costs for entrepreneurial investments in the crisis countries are particularly critical. We welcome the fact that the European Investment Bank has introduced a guarantee program specifically to secure loans for small and medium-sized enterprises through the European Investment Bank. We are committed to further strengthening this commitment. Less bureaucracy Cutting red tape is a free growth program. Companies should spend their money on new ideas and jobs and not on bureaucracy. Thanks to the Standards Control Council we set up, the cost of bureaucracy to the German economy has been reduced by 25 percent. For example, around 500,000 companies have been exempted from accounting and bookkeeping obligations as well as the obligation to take inventories as at the balance sheet date. Since 2008, 40,000 commercial enterprises no longer have to respond to economic surveys and the number of monthly surveys for industry has more than halved from 48,000 to 23,000. We also want a change in mentality at European level. For all European measures, the associated costs and bureaucracy should be taken into account and made more transparent. Because: Industry, Small and medium-sized enterprises, agricultural businesses, the liberal professions and the skilled trades must also be relieved of unnecessary regulations at European level. The European Union should first and foremost limit itself and avoid unnecessary regulations. With its work, the Stoiber Commission has made an important contribution to reducing bureaucracy. Above all, it has created a clear awareness of the problem and thus the central prerequisite for the EU Commission's REFIT program for intelligent regulation. We also need an early warning system at European level, especially for measures that affect SMEs. We are therefore committed to ensuring that all future EU legislation examines whether small and medium-sized enterprises can be exempted from certain regulations. With a new independent EU standards monitoring council, we want to measure not only the costs of new legislative proposals in future, but also the potential savings. Many bureaucratic hurdles also arise in the implementation of EU law in the Member States. The CDU is in favor of one-to-one implementation wherever possible. The different company laws in the EU member states are a considerable bureaucratic challenge, especially for small and medium-sized companies that operate across national borders in the European Single Market. We therefore advocate the creation of a European private company ("Europa-GmbH") to which uniform rules apply throughout Europe. Balanced aid rules At the same time, the political framework conditions in Europe must be set in such a way that our industry can compete internationally. We want to take even stronger action against unfair competition and reduce subsidies that distort competition. We must not lose industries in Europe because competitors on other continents are protected from competition by subsidies or market foreclosure. At the same time, European state aid rules must take global competition into account. For example, exemptions from electricity prices for energy-intensive companies in Germany that compete internationally must remain possible. At the same time, intra-European differences in energy policy must also be taken into account. We also need scope to take account of the situation of key industries in international competition. These include microelectronics, aerospace, the security and defense industry and the maritime industry. 2.5 European labor market: seizing the opportunities of freedom of movement Prevent abusive immigration into social security systems We say yes to freedom of movement in Europe. It is one of the fundamental freedoms of our single market and thus the basis of our prosperity. Above all, this common labor market helps all those who are unemployed in their home country and are therefore looking for a job abroad. We want to open up the opportunities of the common labor market to even more people. Specifically, we want to improve the placement of workers and jobs in the EU. That is why we are committed to ensuring that education and training in Europe and job searches are even better organized. be tuned. We also want languages to be taught even better. and educational qualifications are more easily transferable. Step by step, mobility in the labor market must be increased. Securing employee rights We want a European Union in which employees throughout Europe enjoy fair, liveable and healthy working conditions. The CDU is committed to ensuring that wages are paid in all European countries that people can live on. And the following must apply: Equal pay for equal work in the same place, also for women and men. The right to hire must be designed in such a way that employees are effectively protected against wage and social dumping. This also includes effective monitoring options. Further strengthening equality between women and men in Europe Part of a Europe worth living in is that women and men can lead a self-determined life in the same way. In many European countries, including Germany, women still earn significantly less than men and are underrepresented in management positions. Equality between women and men must therefore be promoted throughout Europe. The European Commission and the European Parliament can provide impetus here and encourage individual countries to take action. Welcome and recognition culture for skilled workers In order to maintain economic success and prosperity in Germany in the long term, we need to attract more qualified and motivated people from other countries. They are welcome here. We already have a shortage of skilled workers in some sectors. This shortage will increase in the increase over the next few years. We have therefore set the course for immigration. The right course has already been set for the recruitment of skilled workers: Professional qualifications from abroad are more easily recognized. And the so-called Blue Card gives highly qualified people the right to stay in Germany and the EU. We are also committed to a welcoming culture that makes Germany more attractive for qualified immigrants. We also need a stronger culture of recognition. We want qualified immigrants from non-EU countries to see the qualifications they have acquired here as an opportunity to live permanently in Germany and the European Union. This promotes social cohesion and at the same time increases the attractiveness of Germany and the European Union for the skilled foreign workers we need. Preventing immigration into social security systems One of the main causes of poverty migration within the European Union is the wealth gap between poorer and richer member states. To ensure that no one has to leave their country solely because of poverty, we are committed to ensuring that the countries of origin sustainably improve local living and working conditions and the integration of minorities. European solidarity is granted here. We must ensure that it is also used and that European funding is used in a targeted manner. However, as long as the differences are as great as they are at present, we must ensure that the free movement of workers takes this into account and is not overshadowed by poverty migration. We firmly oppose immigration from other EU countries that is solely aimed at abusing European freedom of movement and exploiting our country's social security systems. against. In some cities in Germany, it is leading to considerable social Problems and burdens. We will shape our German law within the framework of European legal requirements in such a way that the unjustified use of social benefits can be prevented more effectively. This requires consistent administrative enforcement on the ground against those who exploit the plight of immigrants and those who abuse our social legislation. It is also necessary to combat bogus self-employment and illegal employment. To this end, we need improved cooperation between customs and local authorities, better data exchange between authorities, barriers to re-entry and restrictions on entitlement to social benefits. The high level of German social benefits is closely linked to Germany's economic strength and its competitiveness. In this respect, this can only be regulated nationally. An appropriate solution must take into account the differences in the EU countries by using suitable regulations to sustainably reduce incentives for immigration motivated solely by social benefits. If the existing possibilities under EU law are not sufficient for this, changes must be made . This applies in particular to the Free Movement of Persons Directive. Reduce youth unemployment -strengthen dual training Young people's chances of finding work in Europe are unevenly distributed. While Germany has the lowest youth unemployment rate in the EU, young people have little chance of finding a job, especially in the crisis countries. Overall, there are too many unemployed university graduates and in some Member States, the training system is not up to date. We do not want to and must not abandon these young people. It is also important that the proven resources from the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund are used to support disadvantaged young people. We want to continue and expand the EU Youth Initiative that we launched. It will launch investments and measures to combat youth unemployment in Europe. We want the agreements reached on the Youth Guarantee -i.e. an offer of training for every young person in Europe -to be implemented. We will also support other European countries in introducing successful dual training in schools and companies because it can open up a good professional future for young people. Youth unemployment cannot be successfully combated by government investment and measures alone. Economic growth, a flexible labor market and a good training system remain key in the fight against youth unemployment. Good training We want to offer as many people as possible in the EU the opportunity to receive the best possible education. To achieve this, we need modern education systems and a variety of ways to enable lifelong learning. In order to provide more people with a job, we promote an inclusive and active employment policy that also fits the reality of people's lives. We continue to strongly oppose ideas such as that of the European Commission to only allow young people to train as nurses and geriatric nurses if they have at least twelve years of general schooling, i.e. practically a high school diploma. Such plans ignore the reality of life. The master craftsman's certificate ensures quality With their good name, master craftsmen in Germany guarantee the quality of in-company training and thus support dual training as a whole. In addition, the master craftsman's certificate stands for the quality of the craft services provided and thus protects consumers. We are therefore campaigning at European level to preserve the master craftsman's certificate. Mutual recognition of professional qualifications must not be at the expense of dual training or consumers. Supporting young entrepreneurs Company founders and young entrepreneurs need start-up capital. They often find it difficult to obtain this via bank loans and other traditional financing channels. We therefore want to make it easier to use new financing channels by making them legally secure. In particular, we want to develop a Europe-wide legal framework for crowdfunding, in which a large number of small investors finance a specific project. It is important to us that crowdfunding is equally attractive for entrepreneurs and investors. We support the EU's mobility program for young entrepreneurs, which is based on the Erasmus program. The program offers aspiring young entrepreneurs the opportunity to learn from experienced entrepreneurs in other EU countries. 10,000 exchange places could be organized through this programme. This will make it easier for a new generation of entrepreneurs to benefit from the advantages of the internal market. Secure pension provision in the European Union Anyone who works abroad or moves there must also think about their pension provision. In some countries, a change of employer can lead to losses in occupational pension provision. This may be because entitlements are forfeited or often cannot be transferred to the new employer. We want to further strengthen company pension schemes, especially in small and medium-sized companies. It must be balanced in such a way that it is attractive and at the same time enables employees to remain loyal to their company. It must be clear in Europe: Those who exercise their right to freedom of movement should not be penalized for doing so. We therefore reject the European Commission's plans to subject occupational pension schemes to the so-called Solvency II capital regime for insurance groups. We will prevent European law from interfering with company pension schemes and will fight vigorously to preserve the tried and tested system. We are committed to ensuring that the member states remain solely responsible for the design of pension systems in the future. However, simple, unbureaucratic transferability of entitlements, especially for cross-border commuters, must be guaranteed throughout Europe. Living the European social partnership Social partnership is a key pillar of the social market economy. In the collective bargaining partnership, co-determination and the self-administration of social insurance, employers' associations and trade unions share responsibility for the social flanking of the world of work and a fair balance between employee and employer interests. For us, collective bargaining autonomy and co-determination are a valuable asset for their own sake, but they also pay off economically and are an important locational advantage. The cooperation between trade unions, works and staff councils as well as employers and their associations has proven its worth, especially during the crisis. The collective bargaining partners have contributed to the competitiveness of our companies with responsible decisions, while at the same time keeping an eye on job security and the participation of employees in economic development. We also want to preserve these locational advantages in Europe and support them with suitable framework conditions. Our aim is to develop the social partnership into a successful model throughout the European Union. We are counteracting the negative effects on German company co-determination caused by the change in company law at European level. After all, the responsibility for good cooperation between employees and employers arises from reliable collective agreements, cooperation between self-government and in the companies. We are therefore convinced that the social dialog between the collective bargaining partners also has an important function at European level with regard to competitiveness and good work. Modern gender equality policy has a positive effect on competitiveness. The member states must ensure that this also succeeds. 2.6 Research -investing in Europe's future Research, technology and innovation are the key to economic success, future-proof jobs and sustainable growth. From their The result is new ideas for the human shaping of social change and for new products and services that will enable us to be successful on the global markets of tomorrow. Best conditions for universities, research and innovation Our goal is therefore to make Europe the world's leading knowledge society. For this reason, we want to create the best possible conditions for research and innovation, scientists, universities and centers of excellence throughout Europe. We want world -class research infrastructures, the Europe-wide strengthening of research through cooperation and networking and the formation of European innovation clusters. To ensure that the results of government-funded research in Europe are freely available to as many students, scientists and other interested parties as possible, we are committed to the consistent implementation of the open access principle in EU-funded research. Achieving the 3 percent target -high-tech strategy for Europe Thanks to the policies of the CDU-led federal government, Germany is the leading innovation nation in Europe. We now invest three percent of our gross domestic product in research. We are thus fulfilling a common European goal that all EU member states must achieve in the medium term. Europe will only be credible if we stick to agreed targets. We will assume our responsibility in shaping the European Research Area. With the new EU framework program for research and innovation "Horizon 2020", an important foundation stone has been laid for the coming years. We have successfully campaigned for it to become the world's largest research funding program. program is being expanded. More than 70 billion euros will be invested in research and development over the next few years. The funding will also create incentives for private investment in research, innovation and infrastructure. We will use the new research program for collaborations in key areas of medical, industrial, technical and scientific, ecological, humanities and social science research. We will link our national high-tech strategy and "Horizon 2020" in a meaningful way. German researchers, scientific institutes and our innovative companies should participate successfully in EU projects. That is why we are committed to simpler and less bureaucratic application procedures, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The CDU is committed to the European Space Agency ESA, which coordinates and promotes the development of European space travel. Aerospace plays a strategic role for Germany as a location for innovation. We need European cooperation in order to survive in the global competition between space nations. The German Aerospace Center is an important partner in this. Global cooperation -attracting the best researchers to Europe Europe should become a center of attraction for the world's best researchers. German researchers should join forces with the best in Europe and the world and work together in joint projects in a spirit of trust. This is the only way we can secure our research success in the long term. To this end, we are recruiting talent from all over the world and are committed to improving mobility. for students and researchers. Building a bridge from research to the markets Our goal is to ensure excellence in basic research throughout Europe. However, more money for new ideas is of little use if they are not put into practice. That is why we want to shorten the path from ideas to new products, services and processes. To achieve this, we are relying on a bundle of measures. These include joint European research infrastructures such as supercomputers and special laboratories. We want to promote excellent scientists and new technologies such as biotechnology, nanotechnology and photonics. We want to expand cooperation between science and industry and facilitate access to innovation processes for small and medium-sized enterprises. We need more European venture capital for start-ups and SMEs in order to create jobs. We will promote public-private partnerships. Combining research and regional development Germany will link research and regional development more closely. We will also encourage other Member States to make greater use of European regional funding in the future to develop a European networked and efficient research infrastructure and to support the innovative economy. Observe ethical boundaries The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU contains important principles for a value-oriented policy for the protection of human life. For example, the commercialization of the human body and its parts as such is expressly excluded. We will continue to advocate that ethically motivated limits are respected in European research policy become. We therefore reject the cloning of human beings and oppose embryo research. Where the European Union has no legal basis, the ethical decisions of the member states must also be respected. Human dignity comes first. 2.7 Transport -we make Europe mobile The best ideas and products are useless if they cannot get from A to B. We need a well-developed road and rail network as well as efficient airports and waterways in order to make even better use of the advantages of the European single market. This also includes the major European transport axes, more than half of which pass through our country. As a strong export nation, we in Germany are particularly dependent on this. We therefore want Europe to focus on this and devote more attention to the future task of strengthening the transport infrastructure. This will promote economic strength and jobs . Strengthening our infrastructure Europe has a strong network of roads, railways, air and waterways. This is a major locational advantage in global competition. The aim of a forward-looking transport policy must therefore be not only to secure this advantage, but also to expand it through targeted investment. This is also important because forecasts show that traffic in Europe will increase considerably. Without further expenditure on infrastructure, it will not be possible to cope with this growth. It is also important not only to build more, but also to better link all modes of transport with each other. Expansion of the trans-European networks The European Union promotes the development and expansion of transport infrastructure as part of the Trans-European Networks (TEN-T). These are important for economic growth and jobs in Europe. By expanding these networks, the various national transport networks are to be better interconnected. The CDU therefore supports their further expansion, including financing models with public-private funds. At the heart of this is a trans-European core network that connects central and strategically important hubs such as major cities, airports and ports. We also want to use this network to improve transport links to Eastern Europe. This offers great growth opportunities for our economy and brings people together. European rail market Cross-border rail transport is of strategic importance for European transport policy. This is because rail freight transport is the most important alternative to congested road networks. Our aim is to ensure smooth and high-quality freight and passenger transport for citizens and companies. Various steps are necessary to achieve this. Although the national high-speed networks have been expanded, different track widths, signal systems and tensions continue to hinder cross-border rail traffic. We therefore need technical harmonization. In addition, better coordination of route allocation by the EU member states is necessary. Finally, we need strong and independent regulatory authorities in all EU countries as well as transparent regulations for calculating track access charges. In the liberalization of the European rail transport market, we are committed to uniform European standards. regulations. This applies in particular to technical regulations. The anSafety and quality requirements must be standardized as far as possible across Europe. We must also ensure fair competitive conditions. For us, this includes ensuring that all rail companies have unrestricted access to the markets -while maintaining Deutsche Bahn AG as an integrated group. Strengthening shipping and ports Almost 95 percent of the intercontinental exchange of goods and 90 percent of European foreign trade is carried by sea. European ports are a hub for the international movement of goods and important logistics and service centers. We want to strengthen their performance and eliminate capacity bottlenecks as part of the trans-European transport networks. At the same time, the efficient system of port services in Germany should be maintained. Reduce traffic noise We will involve local citizens in the expansion of transport networks and place particular emphasis on noise protection. In the area of rail transport, we expressly welcome the fact that the retrofitting of quieter brakes in freight transport can be supported with European funds in future. For wagons that have not been retrofitted accordingly, we are calling for an EU-wide transit ban from 2020. Decisions on noise protection measures must continue to be made locally in the future. Single European Sky We are committed to the rapid realization of the Single European Market. airspace (Single European Sky). This would not only improve the competitiveness and safety of European air traffic and its strengthen major hubs. At the same time, it would make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. European regulations for airports (such as ground handling services, noise protection measures) must leave room for regional and local specificities; state aid regulations must also take into account the economic importance of regional airports. We are in favor of a competition-neutral design of EU emissions trading in aviation. Alternative drives The transport sector can make a significant contribution to achieving national and international energy and climate protection targets. We need alternatives to conventional fuels throughout Europe. They must be further developed and made marketable. We will support research and development as well as the market launch of alternative drive systems and the corresponding infrastructure. Intelligent networking and traffic control Intelligent networking can also make mobility significantly more efficient, cleaner and safer. The prerequisite for this is a comprehensive range of interlinked services. Intelligent information services can be a valuable decision-making aid for users when choosing a means of transportation. We want to ensure that a common database is provided for these services for all modes of transport. Intelligent traffic control systems are also of great importance to ensure that the various transport routes can be used even more effectively. We also see new opportunities for better control of traffic flows and increased safety in the European satellite navigation system Galileo with its practical and economic benefits. meaningful offers. 2.8 European energy supply -stronger together With the energy transition, we in Germany are embarking on the path to the industrial society of the future. This combines sustainable growth with the preservation of creation. We want to secure jobs and value creation in Germany, become less dependent on energy imports and protect the environment and climate. In view of the fact that one in four euros of our economic output is generated in industry, we want to pay particular attention to its competitiveness. We want to initiate the energy transition together with our industry and its employees. We will also promote this approach in the European Union. The citizens of Germany are fundamentally in favor of the energy transition and the switch to renewable energies. However, they quite rightly expect energy to remain safe, clean and affordable. We want to involve citizens in the implementation of the energy transition and support the commitment of citizens, local authorities and their companies. We want to maintain our high level of security of supply and industrial jobs, which are the basis of our economic success. We will continue to measure our energy policy in equal measure against the goals of security of supply, economic efficiency and environmental and climate compatibility. For the benefit of the citizens, we want to overcome an energy policy of separate paths in Europe. The energy transition can only be a success in close European cooperation. That is why we are committed to a single European energy market. All consumers should have access to this market. This is not only important in order to achieve the EU's energy policy goals. It is also a crucial prerequisite for Europe to be able to compete with remains internationally competitive with an efficient energy industry. However, as long as this does not exist, sufficient leeway for a national energy and climate policy must be guaranteed. Modern electricity grids and a common European energy network In order to further develop the common electricity market, we are striving for binding European standards. We are committed to the convergence of the European electricity supply and a common energy network. This will make it easier to balance out fluctuations in electricity generation between countries and exploit regional advantages in energy generation - for example in solar or wind energy. Above all, existing obstacles to the cross-border transmission of electricity must be removed. Specifically, we need sufficient and, above all, efficient cross-border interconnectors and Europe-wide power lines to ensure the flow of electricity between the individual countries. We will press ahead with the expansion of electricity grids and storage facilities, which are essential to guarantee our security of supply, across Europe. At the same time, we want to exploit the technical improvement potential of existing grids. Our goal is smart grids and metering systems for consumers. They can ensure that electricity is consumed as much as possible when a lot of energy is being produced and is available in the grid. This can make electricity cheaper for consumers. At the same time, the grids are utilized more evenly. This makes them more stable and less prone to failure. Finally, we need even better framework conditions for a single European energy market: We need more private and public in investments. We need to create a clear legal framework. And we need to promote investment in new ideas, in research and development. Germany as an industrial location with affordable energy prices The ongoing economic crisis has shown that those countries in Europe that can rely on an efficient industry are better able to weather the crisis. This is another reason why we want Germany to remain a competitive industrial country. Around one million jobs in Germany are linked to energy-intensive industries. We want to preserve these jobs and ensure that the employees and their families in these companies have good prospects. German companies, which already pay more for energy than European or other international competitors, must not become the losers of different international and intra-European framework conditions for taxes and levies in the energy sector. This is why we want to continue to provide targeted relief for energy-intensive companies that face tough international and intra-European competition. Renewable energies However, Europe not only needs an electricity grid that is shared by all EU states. Above all, it needs an agreement on the expansion of renewable energies. These can make an important contribution to economic and technological progress in Europe in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and dependence on energy imports from third countries. With the further expansion of renewable energies in Europe, it is important for us to ensure that they are cost-effective and economically viable according to uniform criteria. further develop renewable energies. To this end, we are focusing on the mandatory direct marketing of renewable energies and, in the future, on European tenders. Our aim is to integrate the promotion of renewable energies in Germany into the European internal market. To this end, we will further develop the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) in accordance with European law. We are striving for a reliable expansion path for renewable energies that gives all parties involved planning security. With the EEG reform, we want to noticeably slow down the extent and speed of cost increases by simplifying remuneration systems and stabilizing costs at a reasonable level. We are also committed to ensuring that the European framework conditions continue to support the cost-efficient expansion of renewable energies in Germany and Europe without interfering with the sovereignty of the Member States over the energy mix. Security of supply -the role of gas and coal-fired power plants A secure and reliable electricity supply is of great importance in Europe and is indispensable, especially for Germany as a business location. In the medium term, modern and easily controllable gas and coal-fired power plants with high efficiencies will also be needed to compensate for fluctuations in feed-in and to cover the base load as the share of renewable energies increases. Suitable framework conditions should ensure the economic operation of these necessary reserve capacities. The economic use of lignite is also important as a raw material for the chemical industry, where it opens up opportunities for growth and employment. Efficiency as an important factor in a sustainable energy transition Reducing energy consumption by using energy more efficiently is an important pillar of the energy transition, which we want to strengthen. German companies have a great deal of experience in the development of energy-efficient products and processes and also play a pioneering role internationally. We want to take advantage of the opportunities that this offers, especially for SMEs. We therefore want to effectively implement the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. Its aim is to increase energy efficiency by 20 percent by 2020. We will work to ensure that energy efficiency targets are continued after 2020 in such a way that they are technology-neutral, competition-neutral and thus remain attractive for our SMEs. In increasing energy efficiency, we are pursuing an approach that encompasses buildings, industry, commerce and households and focuses equally on electricity, heating and cooling. Above all, we rely on incentives. Regulatory law should only be applied in exceptional cases with special justification. Safety of nuclear power plants Risks do not stop at borders. That is why power plants must offer the highest level of safety. We will work in Europe to increase the safety of nuclear power plants and establish binding safety targets. We want a system of reciprocal control with continued national responsibility for safety. We are committed to close cooperation and comprehensive transparency in all safety-related issues at European level. Germany wants to influence the international security debate. For this reason, suitable institutionally funded research will continue to be carried out after the exit. We need research facilities, independent expert institutions and sufficient official expertise to assess the safety of nuclear power plants and their dismantling, radiation protection and nuclear waste disposal. However, we emphatically reject the promotion of nuclear energy. 2.9 Making Europe fit for the digital future The internet and digital technologies are shaping our lives today. Smartphones and tablet computers have become an integral part of everyday life. More than one in two Europeans is already regularly online. Meanwhile, the fourth industrial revolution has begun in the economy. With the "Internet of Things", goods are already finding their own way from the shelf in the warehouse to the loading ramp and delivery to the customer. In the future, production chains and everyday objects will be able to be controlled via the Internet or connect with other products: The broken assembly line will independently call the mechanic and the refrigerator will automatically reorder food. Germany and Europe must make new efforts, particularly in the area of Industry 4.0, in order to become technology leaders here too. In the coming years, Europe must improve the framework conditions so that we can once again play a decisive role globally. In particular, the basic conditions for annual future investments must be improved, e.g. in European competition law. We also see the other consequences of digital technology -from the constant from accessibility at work to the loss of jobs due to automation. And above all, we repeatedly see cases of responsible the careless handling of personal data. That is why we want to discuss and develop the necessary solutions for a good digital future in Europe in dialog with citizens. This also includes the need to create security for consumers and companies through the European General Data Protection Regulation. We also want to strengthen media and information literacy in all age groups of the population. Strengthening the digital economy Digital technologies offer us an opportunity for growth, jobs, prosperity and quality of life. In some areas, especially in the SME sector, there are many world market leaders in Germany and Europe. That is why we want to make Europe a world leader in digital progress and become a digital growth center with innovative ideas and good framework conditions. To this end, Europe should become a leading location for Internet and IT companies from all over the world. In terms of industrial policy, we want to contribute to catching up with the current leaders in digital technology and research, the USA and Asia. This includes making it faster and easier to set up companies in the digital sector, e.g. through less bureaucracy and better financing options. More security through technological independence In the past, we have already decided to become less dependent on technology from outside Europe when it comes to cutting-edge technologies. This is why we have established an alternative to Boeing with Airbus. In the area of geodata and digital navigation, we are in the process of becoming more independent with Galileo -an alternative system to the American GPS. It must be the goal of the entire European Union to develop its own competences. also in the area of hardware and software. The digital infrastructure must become more European and thus more independent of non-European influence and abuse. This is particularly important with regard to the security of our networks and systems. We are concerned to see that in Germany and Europe, the technological capabilities are not yet available to a sufficient extent in some important areas. Together with our European partners, we must therefore also become more independent and capable of acting in the Internet sector, in digital security technology and in the area of hardware components. Achieving the goals of the "Digital Agenda" The EU Commission has provid ed important impetus with its "Digital Agenda". Some of its goals have already been achieved: Internet use is increasing significantly, even among people who have been unemployed for a long time or have less education, and more and more older people are discovering the Internet for themselves. In addition, ultra-fast Internet (connections with more than 100 Mbit/s) is becoming increasingly widespread. Further steps are to follow. We are therefore strongly committed to ensuring that the European Commission, together with the Member States and with the involvement of the European Parliament, achieves all the goals of the Digital Agenda and implements all the proposed measures. We see a focus on topics in the areas of e-health, intelligent mobility, networked cities and age-appropriate assistance systems. We also want to continue to support these key projects through the European research program "Horizon 2020". Fast Internet in urban and rural areas -throughout Europe Fast Internet is just as important for citizens and companies today as the supply of electricity, water and gas. That's why we want nationwide connections for fast internet in both urban and rural areas. Particularly in view of the changing population, it is important to use modern technologies to offer the rural population the same opportunities as in the cities. That is why we will continue to drive forward the expansion of broadband in rural areas. To this end, we want to make greater use of discounted loans, bonds from the European Investment Bank and EU structural funds, for example. To this end, we want to develop solutions together with telecommunications and network companies. Private investment in the networks should also be made more attractive through suitable funding measures. We want to make the expansion open to all technologies and further expand access to wireless Internet via WLAN, especially in cities. There are good examples of this in many European cities, which we want to transfer quickly and unbureaucratically to other regions. On the way to a networked continent We want to continue on the path towards a genuine internal market for telecommunications. The European Parliament must now further develop the EU Commission's proposals in this regard. This also includes safeguarding net neutrality and expanding the mobile Internet. Further work must focus in particular on data protection, network security, copyright, digital learning, open data, online citizen participation and e-government. Transparent and uniform standards in Europe and pan-European data protection are crucial for the further development of cloud computing. Promoting start-ups in the digital economy Start-ups in the digital economy are the focus of the "Startup Europe" initiative. A wide range of programs at European level support and connect founders and investors from all countries. They also promote innovation and growth-friendly framework conditions. We will continue to support these. However, this also includes a technology-friendly corporate culture, as Silicon Valley shows. A culture that does not punish the courage to take responsible risks and that also sees mistakes and failure as opportunities. 3. Europe worth living in The CDU wants a Europe that people enjoy living in. Europe has a lot to offer. It is rich in different cultures, traditions and landscapes. This wealth must be preserved and nurtured. 3.1 Strengthening educational cooperation -opening up new opportunities Securing growth, employment and social cohesion is a constant challenge for Europe. This makes it all the more important to continuously develop our knowledge and skills. This is because it is the basis of Europe's wealth and helps to maintain its prosperity. Learning and studying in Europe Education helps people to develop their personality and take advantage of opportunities in life. Education is also important for Europe to grow together. That is why the CDU supports the goal that pupils, trainees and students as well as teachers in schools and universities learn and teach throughout Europe. them. In this way, they forge a living bond between the people of Europe. All pupils should also see Europe as an opportunity. That is why the topic of Europe should be dealt with more intensively in lessons. Spending time in neighboring European countries enables young people in particular to acquire and deepen intercultural skills and new knowledge. This broadens their personal horizons and helps them to improve their chances on the job market. The diversity of education systems in Europe is a treasure that we must preserve: The design of the education system is based on national experiences, established traditions and values that have a strong identity for people, such as the Abitur or dual training in Germany. As decisions in the field of education affect the cultural roots of a nation, we reject the expansion of Community competences in the field of education. Going abroad with "Erasmus+" The CDU welcomes the EU's Erasmus+ program. With this funding program for exchanges and cooperation projects in youth, education and sport, more than four million young Europeans will be able to complete part of their education abroad or take part in cross-border projects by 2020 -regardless of their level of education. The CDU supports the mobility of students, school pupils, vocational school students and trainees: By 2020, at least 50 percent of university graduates should have spent part of their studies abroad. At least ten percent of young adults in training should have spent time abroad. percent. More joint degree programs in Europe In order to further promote student mobility, the CDU will also advocate more joint degree courses between German universities and European partner universities. We want to increase the number of these courses from five percent today to ten percent in 2020. This also includes providing for double degrees as a standard degree. In addition, we are working towards anchoring binding mobility windows in the framework curricula of individual degree programs. At the same time, we want to achieve better recognition of study and examination achievements abroad. To make it easier for students to choose a foreign university, we want a seal of approval for particularly exemplary institutions. 3.2 Sustainable and competitive agriculture and forestry -secure supply Europe has a diverse, sustainable and competitive agricultural sector. It produces high-quality food to the highest consumer, environmental and animal welfare standards. At the same time, it contributes to energy security and climate protection. Sustainable and market-oriented agriculture Implementing the common agricultural policy in practice With the reform of the EU agricultural policy 2014 to 2020, we have created a good basis for European agriculture and rural areas to develop well. The decisions must now be implemented in a practical and unbureaucratic manner. We want the funds to be from Brussels reach farmers in a targeted manner. The path of market We will continue to pursue this orientation in the interests of our agriculture. But farmers can also rely on receiving support in times of crisis. We rely on sustainable cultivation methods, which we want to promote in particular within the framework of ecological priority areas. This is why agricultural production must remain possible on the so-called "greening areas". This should also make Europe less dependent on imports of protein animal feed. For us, adequate, environmentally friendly crop protection and needs-based fertilization continue to be part of modern and efficient agriculture. In an interim evaluation of EU agricultural policy in the middle of the funding period, we are focusing on reliability. After all, our farmers need planning security for their business and investment decisions and fair competitive conditions in Europe. Environment and animal welfare -high European and international standards We are continuing to work on harmonizing agriculture, environmental protection, animal welfare and animal health even better. We can only achieve this together with farmers. That is why we are focusing on positive incentives for European farmers, research funding and the further development of uniform EU standards. These must be consistently implemented in all member states. Only in this way can we further develop animal husbandry in Europe, promote animal welfare and develop effective strategies to combat dangerous animal diseases and reduce the use of antibiotics. We want to combine the highest animal welfare and environmental protection standards with competitive production in Europe. Ultimately, we are striving for uniform international regulations. Our high standards must be taken into account in trade agreements. We also want to achieve simple and fast access for our agricultural sector to markets in third countries. Securing seed diversity In the consultations on a seed regulation in the European Union, we are committed to ensuring that the diversity of varieties, high seed quality and thus the freedom of choice of farmers are maintained. The interests of small and medium-sized breeders, seed companies, private gardeners and hobby breeders must be safeguarded. Old and rare seed varieties should continue to be freely tradable regionally. In order to strengthen competitiveness, we want to give breeders the opportunity to work scientifically in the field of green genetic engineering. It can offer opportunities to solve numerous global problems relating to health, nutrition and the environment. Genetic engineering in agriculture We are campaigning at EU level for a regulation that guarantees the Member States' right of self-determination in the cultivation of genetically modified plant varieties. Sustainable fishing We will use the EU's new Common Fisheries Policy to promote the sustainability of fisheries and create growth and employment in the German fishing industry. In order to safeguard fish stocks, we are relying on a strict discard ban and multi-year management plans for all fish stocks. This will also give our fishermen planning security. security. Particularly in the coastal regions with traditional artisan fiand aquaculture, we will provide new impetus. To this end, we are committed to small-scale coastal fishing and the professional integration of young fishermen. We want to further promote aquaculture as a successful branch of German inland fishing. Its promotion must be accompanied by scientific research. It should reduce dependence on fish imports and contribute to the development of rural regions. Protection of the cultural landscape and forests Our aim is to protect the cultural landscape and ensure that agricultural land is farmed across the board, even in areas where it is difficult, such as in mountainous or grassland areas with meadows and pastures. The farms there are important for local cycles, tourism and rural infrastructure. We will continue to support agriculture in disadvantaged areas and promote regional cycles and value creation. This is why we will continue to advocate the EU-wide protection of regional designations of origin for foodstuffs such as Allguer Emmentaler, Al-tenburger Ziegenkse, Lneburger Heidschnucke and Odenwlder Frhstckkse. Agriculture and forestry in Europe can make an important contribution to an environmentally friendly energy supply and to achieving our climate protection goals. Renewable raw materials and bioenergy must be produced in an environmentally friendly way. We advocate efficient certification systems for all biomass in all forms of use -whether food and animal feed, renewable raw materials or bioenergy -as well as the use of residual materials. 40 percent of Europe is covered by forests. They are a unique treasure of valuable ecosystems, an important source of income in rural regions and the basis of our efficient forestry and timber industry. We want to preserve them and are in favor of a new EU forestry strategy on which the Member States will coordinate their forestry policies. In future, it should focus even more than before on the principle of sustainable management. However, responsibility for forestry policy must remain with the Member States. 3.3 Shared responsibility -European environmental and climate policy The preservation of creation is an outstanding task, especially from a Christian perspective. We are not only responsible for today's generation, but also for ensuring that our children and grandchildren can grow up in a good and healthy environment. We need closer European cooperation on many environmental problems because pollutants know no borders and unilateral national measures jeopardize the competitiveness of our industry. That is why we want to achieve as much as possible together. Combating climate change Combating climate change requires joint action. We will continue to work hard for European leadership in global climate protection. We have succeeded in committing the global community to the goal that the earth's atmosphere should only warm by a maximum of two degrees compared to the pre-industrial age. Many other countries and regions of the world have begun to implement climate protection measures. We are strongly committed to a binding global climate protection agreement. which follows on from the Kyoto Agreement. This does not industrialized countries, but also important emerging countries, must assume concrete obligations. We are committed to the goal of reducing greenhouse gases by 40 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. We continue to believe that a target triangle consisting of greenhouse gas reduction, expansion of renewable energies and energy efficiency makes sense and will work towards this in Europe. Reform of emissions trading Emissions trading is the central market-based instrument of European climate policy. We are committed to eliminating its current problems and creating effective incentives to avoid climate-damaging greenhouse gases. The number of pollution allowances should be reduced in line with the EU climate targets while maintaining the market-based structure of the emissions trading system. Furthermore, our aim is to involve as many countries as possible and develop a global trading system. Improve resource efficiency We are committed to further reducing the consumption of raw materials and energy and decoupling it from economic growth. Greater resource efficiency strengthens innovation, competitiveness and jobs and has considerable benefits for the environment and health. We want to further reduce waste and make full use of recycling opportunities. We want to increase the collection volumes of electrical and electronic waste, expand take-back systems for reusable products and facilitate the return of used appliances. In our environmental policy We rely primarily on incentives and market-based instruments. Regulatory law should be used with a sense of proportion. We will therefore advocate a measured implementation of the Ecodesign Directive. We reject bans and throttling of appliances such as vacuum cleaners, stoves and ovens that are not intended for continuous operation in private households. Water and marine protection We want to strengthen water and marine protection. We are committed to a network of protected areas for the high seas and to negotiations on an international implementation agreement that defines the responsibilities and cooperation of the international organizations concerned for the protection of the high seas and the designation of marine protected areas. We want to implement the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive and achieve the required good environmental status in German marine waters by 2020 at the latest. This includes the designation of protected areas, combating overfishing and clear rules for deep-sea mining and oil and gas extraction from great depths. We are committed to an integrated European maritime policy that combines the promotion of shipping with environmental protection and sustainable management of the seas. We want to tackle the problem of the increasing pollution of the world's oceans with plastic waste together with our European partners. However, we are critical of a ban or charging consumers a deposit. We rely on the tried and tested recycling system in Germany. Fracking -priority for environmental protection With regard to the extraction of gas through so-called fracking, it is For the CDU, it is clear that dangers to people and our drinking water must be ruled out. Safety has absolute priority for us. We reject gas extraction using chemicals that are hazardous to health. Flood and coastal protection We want to strengthen flood protection and give rivers more space again. We will strengthen the dialog with our European neighbors on flood protection and coastal protection. Protecting biodiversity We want to preserve Europe's natural wealth and biodiversity. We are committed to strengthening the international protection of biodiversity and to the protection, conservation and restoration of forests. We want to improve wildlife protection and take stronger action against poaching and illegal wildlife trade. The same applies to large-scale bird trapping with nets. We want to strengthen species protection within the framework of international species protection agreements and make it more efficient and transparent. We are committed to consistent and better protection of whales worldwide. We stand for a sustainable European fisheries policy whose rules must also apply to European fishermen beyond the borders of European waters. 3.4 Consumer protection and good food Strengthening trust in markets and products The CDU is committed to a consumer-friendly Europe. Consumers should be able to trust the regulations of the markets and the economy when shopping, banking or traveling across borders. We want a transparent internal market in which safe and good pro products are produced and offered under fair and sustainable conditions. Consumers should be able to make their own decisions. To do so, they need comprehensible and comparable offers. Further developing EU consumer policy We are working on anchoring the high German level of protection throughout Europe. We have already achieved a great deal: food labeling is clearly regulated. Comprehensible information on nutritional values and ingredients is mandatory. Misleading advertising claims are prohibited. Cosmetics must now also provide better information about the best-before date, special precautions for use and ingredients. Travelers will receive binding EU-wide compensation in the event of train and flight cancellations or delays. The reform of the EU financial markets creates more security for bank customers. We will continue along this successful path of strengthening consumer protection, particularly through transparency and higher standards of advice. Enforcing consumer rights across borders The enforcement of consumer rights across borders must be simple, of high quality and cost-effective. That is why we will implement the EU Directive on Alternative Dispute Resolution in Germany in a timely and consumer-friendly manner. We want to create a Europe-wide platform for online dispute resolution. This should link the national dispute resolution bodies and give consumers and retailers the opportunity to resolve disagreements about online purchases in their own language. We reject collective actions, as they would lead to great uncertainty for companies and consumers. To improve product safety, we are campaigning for a European safety mark similar to the German GS mark. Further improving food safety and labeling We want high-quality and safe food in the European single market. We will prevent food fraud throughout Europe, investigate it quickly and punish it severely so that fraud no longer pays in the future. We are committed to strengthening import controls at the external borders of the European Union. We demand uniformly high standards and a high density of controls, traceability in the food chain and an early warning system. Consumers should not only know what ingredients and how many calories a food contains, but also how it was produced. That is why we are committed to reliable animal welfare labeling and mandatory labeling for products that have been produced using genetic engineering methods. This includes meat from animals that have been fed with genetically modified plants. We also advocate a ban on the cloning of animals for food production and a ban on the import of cloned animals. We also call for animals and animal products derived from cloned animals and their offspring to be labeled. There should be mandatory labeling of the place of origin and production for food. In this way, we also want to strengthen typical regional specialties. We are sticking to our goal of halving food waste across Europe by 2020. We refuse to patronize the consumer. Food cannot be generally divided into good and bad or healthy and unhealthy. It always depends on the individual situation and the quantity. We want to help people to eat a balanced diet. In doing so, legislation must not only take into account the interests of consumers, but also the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. We want consumers to be able to continue to enjoy the variety of regionally and artisanally produced foods, such as bread and sausage from local bakers and butchers. This also applies in the event that the European Commission presents so-called nutrient profiles, which describe the typical nutrient composition of foods and are intended to formulate requirements for health claims. Consumer rights in the digital single market Consumers should also be able to rely on the security of their data in the digital single market, whether they are shopping online, conducting banking transactions or using social networks. We are committed to consumer-friendly data protection regulations and data protection-friendly default settings for services and devices. We want secure and user-friendly e-signatures, the rapid expansion of high-speed networks and the safeguarding of net neutrality. Roaming charges have been reduced in recent years. Now we want a definitive end to surcharges and extra fees when using cell phones and smartphones in other EU countries. Anyone who makes calls, sends text messages or surfs on the move in the European Union should not pay more than in their home country. The digital single market also includes a standardized plug for charging mobile devices. Consumer friendliness also includes an integrated European market for card, internet and mobile payments. Our goal is security in all forms of payment and the reduction of additional fees in the EU. Rights of vacationers We will continue to strengthen the rights of travelers and holidaymakers. In the revision of the Air Passenger Rights Regulation and the Package Travel Act, we are committed to maintaining the existing level of protection. We want a ban on excessive fees, for example for name changes or lost travel documents. We want to adapt the European regulations for package tours to the digital age. Holidaymakers should have the same rights when booking online as they do in travel agencies. Responsible purchasing decision To enable consumers to make responsible purchasing decisions, we advocate that companies commit to the greatest possible transparency with regard to social and environmental aspects in the manufacture of the respective products, including from suppliers. We welcome the development of suitable seals and standards. 3.5 Health in Europe -serving the people We want Europe to remain a global pioneer for innovation, quality and safety in healthcare. Already today, ten percent of the workforce in Europe -more than 20 million people -work in the healthcare sector. National responsibility -European cooperation The competence and responsibility for the organization of the health The responsibility for the implementation lies solely with the Member States. We want to preserve the diversity of the historically founded and politically desired national healthcare systems and the The European institutions will retain the competence to shape them on their own responsibility in the future. However, the European institutions are obliged to ensure a high level of health protection in all measures. Measures by the European institutions should promote exchange and the joint definition of targets through open coordination. The European Union plays a particularly important role in shaping healthcare whenever cross-border issues are involved, for example with regard to patient mobility in Europe. There are still great reserves in cross-border cooperation, for example in hospital planning, medical care, rescue services and centers or in medical research. In acute cross-border emergencies -such as epidemics -it must be possible to act quickly. The growing problem of antibiotic resistance deserves particular attention. We are committed to European cooperation to combat the causes. Successful models from one member state can be adopted across Europe. Pharmaceuticals and medical devices In the highly innovative field of medicinal products and medical devices, the EU internal market has long been a reality. Germany and Europe are in global competition with their medical and pharmaceutical products. Regulations and standards play an important role for patients and companies. Existing and proven regulations must therefore be constantly reviewed to ensure that they continue to meet the current scientific requirements for the greatest possible safety for patients. The aim here is to strike a balance that also effectively takes ethical principles into account and medical progress does not hinder, but makes it quickly available to patients. The legitimate safety needs of patients must not be compromised or jeopardized. Within Europe and worldwide, healthcare regions are competing for the necessary medical and nursing professionals. Germany and Europe have a special responsibility here, which we are aware of and which we can only master together in view of our demographic development. 3.6 City, country, Europe -regional policy for a strong homeland The CDU is the local government party in Germany. Our cities, districts and municipalities should continue to be a home worth living in for their citizens in the future. We want to enforce the principle of subsidiarity at all levels. The Bundestag, Bundesrat, state parliaments and municipal umbrella organizations should be involved in the process of European legislation in a timely and appropriate manner. Over 60 percent of all directives and regulations adopted at EU level are important for the municipal level. This underlines how important it is for local authorities to have a strong voice in Brussels and Strasbourg. That is why we will continue to advocate for the interests of the regions and municipalities in the future. How European requirements can be implemented on the ground is not only decisive for the success of the measures. This also has a significant impact on the image that people have of the European Union. We want a Europe that is close to its citizens and friendly to local authorities: a good EU regional policy, clear and comprehensible regulations and transparent processes, as little bureaucracy as possible and, last but not least, a forward-looking regional funding policy. These are the most important building blocks for which we are working in the interests of our regions and municipalities in Europe. The importance of the Committee of the Regions (CoR) in this context must be strengthened in the future. The participation and involvement of the CoR in the decision-making processes of the European Commission and the European Parliament must be intensified. Particularly in view of the federal structure of the Federal Republic of Germany and the European objectives "Europe of the Regions" must gradually give the Committee of the Regions more competence. The European Union's support for structurally weak regions has done a great deal to manage the necessary structural change on the ground. The successful reconstruction of Eastern Germany would not have been possible without the active support of Brussels. In the future, it will be important to consolidate regional funding according to uniform criteria in both the new and the old federal states. We are also committed to ensuring that the reconstruction of Eastern Germany continues to receive support from the European Union. Securing public services of general interest Our historically evolved local and regional self-government is important to people. We want to preserve this as well as high-quality public services of general interest. This is why we have successfully campaigned for the water supply to be excluded from the scope of the future EU Concessions Directive. This will also ensure a high-quality and affordable water supply in our municipalities in the future. Promotion of rural areas The changing population, structural change in agriculture and climate change pose similar challenges for rural areas throughout Europe. We want to continue to support cities and municipalities in this task. We will therefore advocate reliable support for rural regions so that they remain a home worth living in in the future. To this end, we want to strengthen GP and specialist care in rural areas. We want to strengthen infrastructure, educational opportunities and childcare. Above all, we will drive forward the expansion of broadband, strengthen agriculture, crafts and small and medium-sized industry and preserve the natural and cultural heritage of rural regions. Town twinning and cross-border cooperation -a bond between people We want to expand the partnerships between German and other European cities. More than 5,000 partnerships are a strong sign of lively encounters between people, especially young people. That is why we are committed to supporting town twinning. People in border regions experience Europe in a very practical way. Even traditional municipal policy issues do not stop at borders. We want to improve the opportunities for cross-border municipal cooperation. 3.7 Diversity in culture and media -Europe's wealth Europe is a rich community of cultures and values. Europeans are rightly proud of their cultural diversity. Especially in times of crisis, culture identity- and community-building. This shows: The European Union is more than just a single market. Europe's cultural diversity is reflected above all in the different European landscapes and regions. The CDU is therefore expressly committed to the cultural sovereignty of the Member States and their regions. Creative Europe" funding program Culture unites Europeans in a unique way. That is why we support the EU program "Creative Europe" (2014-2020). It continues important initiatives of cross-border significance. These include, for example, the "European Capital of Culture", the "European Heritage Label", the online library "Europeana" and the "European Heritage Days". In this way, the program makes an important contribution to the further development of cultural and artistic education in Europe. The Member States play a leading role in these initiatives. Modern copyright law We want to adapt copyright law to the requirements and challenges of the digital age. The aim must be to achieve a fair balance between the interests of authors, users and exploiters. Brand owners, authors and other creatives need effective protection against infringements on the digital web. That is why we are striving to expand binding European and international agreements. Diversity and quality in the media landscape Freedom of opinion and freedom of information are necessary foundations of our free and democratic basic order. Free and strong media are a central ral element. We want to continue to support its diversity in the future. We therefore also want to shape the framework conditions in Europe in such a way that the media landscape can develop in the best possible way and fulfill its cultural mission. Viewers, listeners and readers can no longer tell the difference between content that reaches them via "traditional" broadcasting or the Internet, for example. Today, we also use the computer as a television and use the television to access the Internet. This technical convergence of media is shaping the current development of the media world. In future, media law and network policy issues will therefore increasingly overlap. European policy must adapt the legal framework to the new conditions. In view of increasing convergence, it is important to develop a new understanding of how audio-visual media, electronic services and applications interact. We advocate a uniform level of regulation here. We want to reduce existing over-regulation. We want fair competitive opportunities for all media. Content from all media must be able to refinance itself and new business models must be able to develop. We are committed to reviewing and adapting the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. For example, we want to deregulate the quantitative advertising rules. We also reject further advertising bans. We want to ensure media diversity and equal journalistic opportunities on the Internet at European level. That is why we are committed to net neutrality: Certain data may not be used for transmission on the Internet. are preferred. At the same time, it should remain possible to add special services. leave. Any discrimination within service classes is inadmissible. We also want platform neutrality: regardless of whether it is a smartphone, tablet, PC or internetenabled television -films, television and videos must be easy to find and access on all end devices. Suitable European framework conditions must be created for the preservation of digital terrestrial television (DVB-T2). When designing the EU General Data Protection Regulation, care must be taken to ensure that refinancing options for media content production are retained. We want to strengthen the many existing activities for teaching (digital) media skills. We welcome European media offerings as well as bi- and multinational projects such as Arte and Euronews, which help to create a European public sphere. The future of the book Living literature is an elementary component of our culture. We therefore also want a future for books in the digital age. That is why we also want a reduced VAT rate for electronic books and audio books. We will work towards this at European level. 3.8 An intergenerational Europe -shaping demographic change Fortunately, people in Europe are living longer and longer. The average life expectancy in Germany is increasing by six hours every day. At the same time, however, fewer children are being born than in the past. The number of migrant population is increasing. Our society is becoming older, smaller, but also more diverse. This development affects all countries in Europe and represents a major challenge for our entire continent. Our goal is to be one of the most innovative and competitive regions in the world, even with a population that is getting smaller and older in the long term. However, we also want to create the conditions for more families to be formed and more children to be born throughout Europe. Learning from each other Germany is playing a pioneering role in the question of how to respond to these changes: We have taken important steps to future-proof our social security systems. Our sound financial policy is a contribution to greater intergenerational fairness. With new concepts, we are succeeding in ensuring good care for the population, even in sparsely populated regions. Germany can develop into an innovative lead market in this area and provide important impetus for the whole of Europe. The changes have progressed particularly quickly in eastern Germany. We have regions there where the population density has almost halved in the past 20 years. Many regional models and solution concepts have already been implemented here. We want to make the experience gained in this way available to other countries and regions. However, population change is a challenge that affects all social groups. The European Commission must therefore respond to this with its funding policy. European Demography Forum We are committed to further developing the European Demography Forum. Since 2006, political decision-makers, experts and stakeholders from all over Europe have been discussing responses to demographic change there. The European Demography Report should also be continued as an instrument for evaluating measures that have already been initiated. Finally, the various demographic strategies and measures of the countries and regions must be made better known across borders. A good example of this is the "Demographic Change Regi-ons Network" (DCRN), in which various regions particularly affected by change have joined together to form a network. Better support for particularly affected regions Many regions are finding it difficult to cope with population change. This also involves financial efforts. We therefore want new priorities to be set in the Structural Funds that take greater account of the consequences of population development in the individual regions. Shaping the adaptation process with more flexibility An important aid for the affected countries and regions can also be more and better utilizable room for maneuver, with which they can react flexibly to changes that come their way. We therefore want to open up the possibility of temporarily deviating from European standards by including trial clauses in regulations and laws for countries particularly affected by population decline. Strengthening solidarity between the generations We want to enable as many people as possible to participate in social life independently into old age. Our multi-generational homes also make an important contribution to this. We want to develop them into caring communities and also promote this idea to our European neighbors. Older people have a wealth of experience that we want to make better and greater use of. This is to the benefit of all generations. We oppose all forms of age discrimination. We therefore want to support projects that make Europe more age-friendly and strengthen social cohesion. In this way, we want to improve the quality of life and health of older people and at the same time improve barrier-free access to services in all areas of society. This will also benefit young families and people with disabilities. With the retirement age of 67, Germany has taken an important step towards a stable and intergenerationally fair pension system. We encourage the other countries of the European Union to make their pension systems just as future-proof and to consider longer working lives. The aim must be to integrate the younger and older generations equally into the labor market. 3.9 People with disabilities -for good cooperation Around 80 million people in the European Union live with a disability. That is 16 percent of the total population. People with and without disabilities often still live in two separate worlds. This is what we change. The European Union has also signed and ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It has thus committed itself to implementing the Convention in its areas of responsibility. In addition, it is to accompany and support the member states in the implementation in the areas of national responsibility. The CDU is committed to the UN Convention and the rights for people with disabilities enshrined therein. We are therefore committed to the implementation of the "European Disability Strategy 2010-2020" and its further development. Accessibility We are committed to ensuring that the coexistence of people with and without disabilities becomes a matter of course throughout Europe. An important prerequisite for this is the creation of accessibility at all levels of society, in housing and road construction, transport, communication, sport, leisure and culture. Inclusive education We stand for inclusive education. We want all people to have the same opportunities for lifelong, high-quality education, taking into account their individual learning needs. Opportunities on the labor market The CDU is committed to ensuring that people with disabilities have more opportunities to find a job. This applies in particular to young people with disabilities. We need a wider range of training and employment opportunities. In order to achieve our goal of an inclusive society, EU legislation should take sufficient account of the interests of people with disabilities in all policy areas. The participation of people with disabilities as experts on their own behalf must be ensured. 3.10 Volunteering and civic participation -participation and responsibility The European Union is an important part of our reality, which also includes the active involvement of citizens. We therefore want people to increasingly feel European and identify with the European Union. European Voluntary Service We will therefore continue and strengthen the projects within the framework of the culture of encounter, youth exchanges, citizens' meetings within the framework of town twinning, networking of twin towns and citizens' projects. We support cross-border cooperation between civil society organizations such as research institutions, clubs, associations, businesses, educational institutions, church and charitable organizations. We are particularly committed to the expansion of European voluntary services. Political participation and citizen involvement We are committed to actively involving citizens in the shaping of European to participate in politics. As an instrument for political participation, the European Citizens' Initiative is particularly important to us. It enables one million EU Citizens can ask the European Commission to deal with an issue or take a legislative initiative. Europe's citizens want to be actively and directly involved in decisions that affect their living environment. In the interests of greater proximity to citizens, all European decisions must be comprehensible to them. Information must be simple, understandable and easy to find. We are therefore committed to further strengthening German as the most widely spoken native language in the European Union. Our goal is for German to be treated on an equal footing with English and French in the EU authorities. 3.11 Churches and religious communities -respecting faith, living values We want a Europe that acknowledges and lives by its Christian and Western roots and the ideas of the Enlightenment. We are sticking to our goal of making the responsibility before God emphasized in the Basic Law clear in the EU Treaty in the long term. Mediator of values in Europe We want to strengthen the role of churches in European decision-making processes. We want to ensure that they are better involved in the European legislative processes relevant to them by, among other things, giving them better rights to information, proposals and consultation. Their rights provided for in the Treaty should be better developed in practice. Respecting national traditions It remains the responsibility of the individual member states to freely shape their own relationship with their churches and religious communities. It care must therefore be taken to ensure that European law does not directly or indirectly change the conditions under state-church law in the Member States. This applies in particular to all issues that are subject to the Member States' own organization by churches and religious communities, such as church labor law. 3.12 Displaced persons and national minorities -living diversity The CDU is committed to the protection of national minorities in the European Union. Their language and culture as an expression of their identity are an enrichment for culture in Europe. Preserving and promoting them is also a European task. In particular, national minorities must be enabled to live and work in their ancestral homelands and settlement areas and to maintain their language and cultural traditions without being discriminated against. We remain committed to supporting the four national minorities in Germany -Danes, Sorbs, Frisians and German Sinti and Roma -and the German minority in Denmark. Expellees -a bridge to our neighbors The German expellees, the German repatriates and late repatriates as well as the German ethnic groups in Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe have an important bridging function in Germany's cooperation with its eastern neighbors. We will continue our support for the German ethnic groups in Central , Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. Right to the homeland The freedom of movement that applies in the European Union is a step towards realizing the right to one's homeland for German displaced persons as well. in a Europe in which peoples and ethnic groups live together in harmony. Recent European history also makes it clear that representations of any kind must be internationally outlawed and violated rights must be recognized. 4. Europe: Living in freedom and security People in Europe live in freedom and security. In view of the history of our continent, this is not a matter of course, but a great achievement. We want to preserve the common area of freedom, security and justice in Europe. We owe the open borders in Europe to the successful European unification. They are a benefit for us all. This freedom must be protected both internally and externally. Even with open borders, the security of people in Europe must be guaranteed. The challenges for this have grown with the European Union's Easter elections. 4.1 Effectively combating cross-border and organized crime We want to further improve internal security in a united Europe. To this end, we will further strengthen trust-based cooperation and the exchange of information between the security authorities of the EU member states. In this way, we want to ensure the full functionality of the Schengen area. Security in the Schengen area We want to continue to compensate for the abolished border controls in the Schengen area by carrying out checks along Germany's borders without cause. Restricting European visa policy to the alternatives of requiring a visa or completely dispensing with pre-entry checks is no longer in keeping with the times. We therefore rely on electronic procedures for travel authorization, with which other countries have already gained good experience. We also want to use the advantages of these procedures for the European Union and establish a European entry and exit register; special attention must be paid to data protection. This creates a security balance for further easing of visa requirements and visa-free travel for third-country nationals. It must still be possible to suspend visa-free travel in special situations. Fight against crime in border regions The fight against rising crime in the regions close to the Polish and Czech borders requires particular attention. Above all, we will take consistent action against human and drug trafficking as well as burglary and vehicle theft. We want to ensure that the police forces in the areas along the German borders are adequately equipped. In addition, we want to further intensify cooperation between the federal police and the respective state police near the border. We want to build on the successes of cross-border police cooperation. This includes, in particular, the police centers established together with our European neighbors. Fight against human trafficking and forced prostitution We want to better protect women from human trafficking, violence and forced prostitution. We want to punish perpetrators more consistently. The main focus must be on regulations that strengthen the prosecution of perpetrators and emphasize the protection of victims. The CDU is committed to the swift implementation of the EU strategy to eliminate human trafficking into national law. Cooperation between the judiciary and customs We want to further strengthen judicial and customs cooperation between EU member states and with third countries. The European arrest warrant is one of the most successful tools for promoting judicial cooperation. We want to enable the sustainable dismantling of criminal networks through the effective coordination of searches. The full recognition of evidence, judgments and confiscation decisions in all Member States is particularly important in this regard. The CDU is also in favor of a European Investigation Decision. This would make it easier to obtain information and evidence across borders. 4.2 Open internal borders -guarantee secure external borders Effective protection of external borders is a guarantee of security in Europe. With the abolition of internal borders, the Schengen states have strengthened controls at the common external borders. This increases security for people living and traveling in the European Union. At its external borders, however, the Schengen area is still characterized by ille-The EU is threatened by illegal immigration, human trafficking, arms trafficking, drug trafficking and international terrorism. To secure the external borders we will continue to strengthen the successful work of the European agency FRONTEX. The Member States of the European Union must continue to cooperate closely in border management in the future. This also applies to cooperation with the border and customs authorities of third countries. 4.3 Common refugee and asylum policy -helping those in need of protection The terrible images of refugees drowning off the coasts of Europe have deeply moved many people. When boats capsize in the Mediterranean, the first and foremost duty is to save human lives. We stand up for the protection of the politically persecuted. This is in line with our Basic Law and our Christian convictions. Anyone who is politically persecuted and in need of protection must be able to rely on Germany and Europe. Common European Asylum System We have created the legal basis for an area of refugee protection and solidarity in the European Union. With the Common European Asylum System, we have established high standards of protection for refugees. As a result, the European Union has one of the most modern and far-reaching asylum and refugee protection laws in the world. The Dublin procedure has proven itself in principle. According to this, an asylum application must be submitted in the member state in which the asylum seeker first arrived in the European Union. In practice, however, the procedure has shortcomings. In particular, a large number of cases fail to be transferred to the Member State actually responsible. We must continue to rely on a functioning common asylum system. Because no member state can solve the problems at hand on its own. To this end, we want to We will press ahead with the implementation of the Common Asylum System and strengthen practical cooperation between the Member States. We will insist that all Member States actually apply the common asylum rules in practice. For us, the principle of a uniform level of protection and solidarity-based burden-sharing continues to apply. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia have prospects as EU members and must therefore be considered safe countries of origin in future. This will enable asylum applications from nationals of these countries that have no prospect of success to be processed more quickly and their stay in Germany to be ended more quickly. We want to lobby the governments of these countries and the European Commission to ensure that sustainable measures are taken to improve the living conditions of people in these countries. Respect for human rights and humanitarian standards Germany continues to take in a large proportion of the refugees who come to Europe and sets standards in refugee aid. At the same time, the countries on the external borders of the European Union are burdened with an increasing number of refugees. When protecting the external borders, we advocate consistent compliance with human rights and humanitarian standards. In order to obtain a meaningful picture of the situation at the borders, their monitoring must be improved. In this way, refugees in distress at sea can also be helped more quickly. The principle of nonrefoulement and the duty to rescue at sea must be strictly adhered to. Help for refugees We stand in solidarity with third countries in crisis regions that bear the greatest responsibility for refugees. We will continue to support the refugee We will continue to do our utmost to support the work of the United Nations. We will continue to help refugees in the future. We are also committed to new forms of protection. This includes taking in refugees from third countries if it is not possible for them to return to their country of origin in the near future or if they cannot be permanently integrated into the country that first took them in. We continue to build on the trusting cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and appeal to the other EU member states to also participate in the reception of refugees. This also applies to aid for refugees worldwide. Our goal must be to prevent refugees from finding themselves in a life-threatening situation in the first place. A sustainable asylum policy therefore starts with the causes of flight. The European Union must work to ensure that the living situation in the refugees' countries of origin continues to improve. Strategy for repatriation We will develop a coordinated strategy for the consistent repatriation of people who are not in need of protection. This will ensure that immigration, foreign and development policy are better interlinked. This includes return assistance and identity clarification. Cooperation with the countries of origin and transit in Africa must improve . This applies to the fight against smuggling and illegal immigration, the management of legal immigration and refugee protection. To this end, the European Union should enter into partnerships with these states. and support them in developing their own asylum systems. 4.4 Responsible data policy -protecting privacy Germany and Europe need a responsible data policy. It should protect people's privacy. The internet shows particularly clearly that technological progress is constantly posing new challenges to the existing legal framework. Legal developments must keep pace with technological developments. In the digital world, too, a better balance must be struck between freedom and security. Everyone must be able to move freely and securely online. However, data misuse undermines trust in the Internet. We will therefore pay particular attention to the security and privacy of the individual. Our aim is that wherever personal data is processed, European law must also apply . However, no data protection law can absolve individuals of their own responsibility for their data. That is why we are committed to providing concrete help and education in everyday life in order to effectively protect digital personal rights. Data protection and data and IT security measures must be interlinked. Reform of European data protection law We want to thoroughly reform European data protection law so that everyone in the European Union can rely on a uniform and high level of data protection. We want to maintain the strict German protection standards and adapt them to the challenges of the digital society. Restoring trust in data protection Effective data protection also includes protection against spying by foreign intelligence services. In view of the espionage practices that have become known, we must regain lost trust in the protection of personal data. To this end, we want to achieve better cooperation between the security authorities of the EU Member States. We are also calling for the swift introduction of a reporting obligation with criminal penalties for companies that transfer their customers' data to authorities in third countries without their consent. We need better enforcement of European data protection standards against providers from third countries. We also want to agree on joint new transatlantic data protection standards in order to better protect personal data when it is transferred from Europe to the USA. That is why renegotiating the so-called Safe Harbor model is the right way forward. Transatlantic data transfer must be put on a better legal footing. This must take into account the increasing technological developments and the associated challenges for personal and behavioral data as well as for the privacy of our citizens. Storage of connection data to combat crime and terrorism Personal communications data must be protected. At the same time, however, we must be allowed to use data to fight crime and terrorism within a legally defined framework. Appropriate retention periods for connection data are necessary for this. This means that investigators can only access this data after authorization by a judge in order to to prosecute serious criminal offenses. Access must also be possible to avert acute danger to life and limb. We will therefore implement the corresponding EU directive. At European level, we will work to ensure that the retention period is reduced to three months. 4.5 Increase network security -freedom in a secure network Almost all areas of life are now permeated by information technology. The dependence on the security and reliability of these systems has increased enormously over the past ten years. Crime is increasingly shifting to the internet -from data theft and online fraud to industrial espionage. Both private and business data have become lucrative prey for criminals. Data protection and online security are therefore among the major technological and social challenges of the next decade. Restoring trust in data security Advancing digitalization is becoming increasingly important for Europe. It is therefore important to develop and expand our own European expertise in the field of IT security. We must achieve more "technological sovereignty", particularly in the development of hardware and software, in order to become more independent of countries outside Europe. We are also committed to better securing European communication links against mass spying. To this end, we advocate a European routing system, the European processing of connection data and the use of encryption technology. For a European strategy on IT security Germany already has an IT security strategy. It is a good basic to ensure security at an appropriate level without compromising the opportunities offered by the Internet. However, cybercrime does not stop at national borders. In order to protect freedom online and ensure security, we want to make the IT infrastructure more resilient across Europe. To this end, we advocate a European strategy for network security. Protecting the economy from espionage In the globalized economy, vulnerability to attacks from the internet and spying attacks by foreign intelligence services and international competitors is increasing rapidly. Important research and development results are spied on in this way. The competitiveness of the German and European economy is severely damaged; small and medium-sized companies in the single market in particular are often inadequately protected. We want to better protect Germany and Europe against such attacks. This also requires a closely interlinked approach at European level by all players in government, business and research. To this end, we need greater cooperation and a better exchange of specialist knowledge and information. Critical infrastructure protection We will better protect water, electricity, telecommunications networks and other so-called critical infrastructures against attacks from the internet. An IT Security Act will establish uniform and high security requirements for all critical infrastructures in Germany. Significant IT security incidents must be reported in future. As part of a European security strategy, we want to introduce corresponding regulations Europe-wide as well. This also includes closer cooperation European security authorities to protect us against espionage by non-European states and to be able to take coordinated action against it. Promotion of research and innovative projects Network security is also a decisive location factor for the future -for Germany as well as for the European region. The more comprehensive the protection in Europe is, the more worthwhile it will be to invest in Europe as a business location. That is why we will continue to drive forward research in this field and promote innovative projects. More and more companies are developing innovative security solutions. These initiatives must be strengthened. By providing the right incentives, we want to make Germany the market leader for security solutions in the network and at the same time increase network security in Europe. 5. Europe's responsibility in the world The European Union stands for peace, freedom and prosperity, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights -in Europe itself and in the world. Only together can we successfully defend and enforce our values and interests in the world. 5.1 European foreign and security policy worldwide for peace and human rights The future of Germany and Europe is closely linked to political, economic, ecological and social developments in the world. International security, climate protection, economic stability and a secure, clean and affordable energy supply are increasingly determining the international debate. national agenda. We Europeans can only play a decisive role in shaping globalization if we have a strong and effective European Union. To achieve this, we must work together to develop solutions and speak with one voice. This is the only way we can stand up resolutely for peace, freedom and prosperity worldwide. Strengthening Europe's external action We are committed to ensuring that the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy remains anchored in the European Commission as Vice-President. We want to further strengthen this office so that the European Union can act and act more cohesively and effectively in the world. The capabilities of the European External Action Service (EEAS) for preventive crisis management and rapid crisis response must be improved. Trade and foreign policy as well as development cooperation must be even better linked and coordinated between the European Commission and the EEAS. Common security and defense policy We want to develop the Common Security and Defense Policy (CSDP) into a common defense of the European Union and continue to make an important contribution to this as the Federal Republic of Germany. In doing so, we also rely on the concept of an alliance partnership. This allows neighboring countries to link up with the military capabilities of the larger member states of the European Union. All member states must continue to improve their military capabilities in line with their economic capabilities. The decisive factor is that the concept of a partnership of alliance must also promote common security and the development of a common defense. serves. In the long term, we are striving for a European army. We want to strengthen the military capabilities of the European Union and at the same time work closely with NATO. We are committed to coordinating and expanding existing initiatives for pooling and sharing military capabilities as closely as possible. This also applies with a view to greater task sharing. We attach particular importance to Germany's cooperation with France and Poland in this regard. We want to involve all interested partners in the possibility of so-called "permanent structured cooperation". The Eurocorps in Strasbourg is also a format that can be expanded. Together with EU partners willing to cooperate, we want to develop a concept for joint defense planning. We are increasingly striving for joint armaments projects and the development of joint capabilities. This will enable us to deploy defense policy resources more effectively. We continue to advocate the harmonization of guidelines for arms exports within the European Union. European Union and NATO -stronger together Europe is a force for peace. The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize is symbolic of this. In the CSDP, the European Union contributes its special skills in diplomacy, civil crisis prevention and post-crisis care. Through a networked approach that includes NATO's military strength, it raises awareness of the fact that conflicts can never be resolved by military means alone. A comprehensive strategy involving political and civilian means is required. The European The European Union and its member states can provide valuable assistance, particularly in the development of an efficient police force and judiciary. We want joint European missions to safeguard and strengthen Europe's security to be carried out primarily in our neighborhood. Operations beyond this neighbourhood should increasingly be entrusted to regional partners and organizations in other regions of the world. Transatlantic partnership The transatlantic partnership is based on a foundation of shared values. Even in the 21st century, there are no better partners for each other than North America and Europe. This partnership is therefore still the key to greater freedom, security and prosperity in the world today. That is why we will continue to consolidate and strengthen it. For more growth and jobs on both sides of the Atlantic, we will dismantle trade barriers as part of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. In future, it will be important to strengthen cooperation between the EU and NATO. Existing barriers to cooperation must be overcome. Partnership with Russia We strive for a good, neighborly relationship with a politically and economically modern Russia. However, the depth and breadth of the relationship depends largely on the extent to which Russia fulfills its international obligations, strives for good neighborly relations and complies with agreed democratic and constitutional standards. We want to strengthen contacts with representatives of the new Russian middle class and Broaden civil society and promote inter-societal cooperation promote. We reject Russia's attempts to put pressure on states in the common neighborhood. Supporting separatist movements in Russia's neighboring countries and violating the sovereignty of the territory of Russia's neighbors are absolutely unacceptable. We condemn the use of military force against Ukraine. All Russian military units, with the exception of the presence of the Russian Black Sea Fleet on the Crimean peninsula, which has been contractually agreed between Ukraine and Russia, must leave Ukrainian territory. Our aim is to resolve the current crisis through negotiations. However, we are prepared to impose further sanctions if Russia does not change its course. Expanding cooperation with emerging markets Building a peaceful and fair world order in the 21st century and solving global problems require us to work even more closely with emerging economies. Human rights and democracy must play a central role in this. We are also committed to expanding civil society contacts. Good relations with China, Europe's second largest trading partner, are in the interests of Germany and Europe. We want to further expand the dialog and cooperation between Europe and China. We also want to involve countries such as India, Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria and South Africa even more closely. One example is the Group of the Most Important Industrialized and Emerging Countries (G20). We want to expand relations with regional organizations such as ASEAN, MERCOSUR, the African Union and ECOWAS. In addition, a lively economic exchange with the dynamically growing countries is of great importance for secure and competitive jobs in Germany and Europe. United Nations -Focus on the ability to act We are committed to making the United Nations more effective and stronger. This also requires internal reforms. If the Security Council is reformed, we are in favor of a permanent seat for the European Union. On the way there, Germany is prepared to take on more responsibility by assuming a permanent seat on the Security Council. Human rights -in focus Human rights are universal, indivisible and inalienable. They are an expression of the inviolable dignity of the human being. Our political action in Germany, in Europe and in the world is based on this fundamental conviction. Our intensive efforts to implement and safeguard human rights are also based on our Christian view of human beings. It must continue to be an essential part of a European foreign policy guided by values. The commitment to the abolition of the death penalty and the prohibition of torture worldwide must be pursued vigorously in European external relations. We want to promote religious freedom as a universal human right worldwide and improve the situation of religious minorities, especially Christians. The increasing discrimination and persecution of Christians in the world requires an effective European response. We resolutely oppose all forms of anti-Semitism. At the same time, our solidarity with all discriminated religious and ethnic minorities is self-evident. We remain committed to combating human trafficking, forced prostitution, forced marriage and organ trafficking in Europe and around the world. We stand up for the recognition of freedom of the press, freedom of opinion and freedom of assembly worldwide. 5.2 Consolidation before enlargement -strengthening Europe's cohesion Previous EU enlargements have increased the zone of stability and peace in Europe. They have brought Germany political and economic benefits overall. In the last 20 years, the number of EU member states has increased from 12 to 28. The rapid pace of enlargement was necessary, but at the same time it is a great burden on the European Union's ability to make decisions and act. Particularly in view of the economic and financial crisis, which has not yet been overcome, the consolidation of the European Union must therefore take priority over further enlargements in the coming years. However, the European Union must remain open to European states. Enforce accession criteria without compromises We want the current accession negotiations to continue. In doing so, we will take great care to ensure that candidates for accession to the European Union fully meet all political and economic criteria. This is the prerequisite for the conclusion of accession negotiations. In particular, the countries must have implemented EU standards in the areas of rule of law, separation of powers, human rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of religion. The same applies to the rights of ethnic groups and minorities. The decisive factors are, on the one hand, the candidates' ability to join and, on the other, the European Union's ability to absorb them. Western Balkans We support the prospect of the Western Balkan states joining the European Union. However, every candidate country must also fulfill the criteria. The accession process offers the opportunity to bring existing minority and neighborhood conflicts in the region. In addition the countries of the Western Balkans successfully solve their problems in the area of the rule of law. In particular, they need to counter corruption more effectively. Turkey We recognize Turkey's strategic and economic importance for Europe. We also see the diverse relationships that have developed between the people of the European Union and Turkey. Above all, the population of Turkish origin in Germany represents an important bridge between our countries. We therefore want the closest possible cooperation between the European Union and Turkey as well as strategic cooperation on foreign and security policy issues. However, we reject full membership for Turkey because it does not meet the requirements for EU accession. In view of the size of the country and its economic structure, the European Union would also be overburdened. 5.3 European Neighborhood Policy -for democracy, stability and prosperity Lively eastern neighborhood Democratic development and the rule of law in the Eastern Neighborhood including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine -is of central interest to Germany and the European Union. We want to continue to promote the democratic, constitutional, economic, social and ecological development of these countries. Asso-ciation, free trade and visa facilitation agreements remain the best instruments for bringing these states closer to the European Union. We are pleased that Georgia and Moldova have already signed the association agreements. For several years now, we have been observing with great concern that important principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights are being violated in countries in the Eastern Neighborhood such as Azerbaijan and Belarus. These countries should also be able to take their place in the European House of Shared Values. In this endeavor, we want to promote their democratic development. We therefore support the democratic and pro-European political forces there. In Ukraine, the people on the Maidan in Kiev, but also in many other cities, have spoken out in favor of democracy and a pro-European course for their country. Former President Yanukovych and the government that supported him had lost all legitimacy due to the disproportionate use of force against the demonstrators. The territorial integrity and thus the state unity of Ukraine must not be called into question and violated. Russia's actions in Ukraine represent a breach of fundamental principles of international law. The strength of the law and not the law of the strongest must apply. The CDU is in favor of Ukraine receiving extensive solidarity, including financial solidarity, from the European Union in its hour of need. We want to support the new Ukrainian government in its political and economic reform program. Ukraine has a clear European perspective thanks to the negotiated Association Agreement, which we want to fill with life as quickly as possible. Nevertheless, we also want Ukraine to be able to maintain good and close relations with the European Union and with a Russia that respects the sovereignty of its neighbors. Ukraine can then also play an important bridging role between the European Union and Russia. Neighbors on the Mediterranean Europe's neighboring countries on the southern and eastern shores of the Mediterranean are of great importance to the EU. This applies above all to the internal and external security of the European Union, our energy supply and the fight against illegal immigration. A democratically constituted and stable European neighborhood in North Africa and the Arab world, which opens up good opportunities for local people, is in our interest. The European Union must therefore continue to actively support the sustainable development of reform-ready countries. Near and Middle East Germany and Europe have a strong interest in peace and stability in the Middle East. We support the goal of a two-state solution. This includes a Jewish democratic state of Israel with recognized and permanently secure borders and a viable Palestinian state living in peaceful neighborhood. Syria Lasting peace in Syria will only be possible if all parties to the conflict are willing to negotiate. If the Syrian regime does not cooperate sufficiently, we will insist on further sanctions by the European Union and tough consequences in the United Nations Security Council. Together with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, we will make a strong case to other EU member states for a joint European initiative to take in Syrian refugees. Neighboring continent Africa We want to help the countries of our neighboring continent, Africa, to solve their own problems. The primary goals of our engagement include combating poverty, protecting natural resources and promoting democracy and the rule of law. We also focus on policies to stabilize and rebuild weak or failed states. Expanding investment and trade relations between Africa and the EU is in the interests of both sides. It makes an important contribution to economic development. 5.4 Sustainable development -global justice The European Union and its member states are by far the world's most important donors of development services. The common European development policy must continue to be guided by a value-oriented policy of interests. Values and interests We want to focus on democracy and human rights, peaceful coexistence and the sustainable creation of prosperity. We are guided by the principles of the social market economy, the integrity of creation and fair trade opportunities for all worldwide. Our approach in European development cooperation is to help people help themselves. Developing countries must align their actions and governance accordingly. The governments in our partner countries must also be judged on whether they create framework conditions that promote development. We advocate that European development policy advocates a poverty-oriented follow-up agenda for sustainable development goals that takes up and deepens the previous Millennium Development Goals. We want to agree on globally applicable, concrete and sustainable development goals. Coordinating European and national development policy In order to strengthen the effectiveness of European development policy, we want to shape it in such a way that it best complements the development policies of the Member States. Above all, it should only be used where the European Union, as an overarching political entity, can offer better solutions to problems. This also means that the European Union should not set up its own organizations that carry out development projects themselves. At the same time, we want to improve the division of labor both between the Community level and the Member States as well as among the Member States themselves. This will enable us to achieve better results. We also want to strengthen the interplay between the various policy areas of the European Union. In particular, we want to better coordinate European development and neighborhood policy. We want to better coordinate and dovetail the various sources of funding for joint European development policy. We therefore want to transfer the European Development Fund to the European Commission's budget. 