Correction: Agnieszka Bąk, Magdalena jankowska Graphic design and typesetting: Agata Duszek, julia Tabor -Koko Studio Dru k: Mastimo sp. z o.o. ISBN 978-83-933794-0-8 table of contents Table of contents Foreword by Prime Minister Donald Tusk 9 Four tiers of smart growth 21 1. Innovation and social capital 23 a) Education from kindergarten to professional work 26 • children 27 • students 37 • universities 42 b) "From idea to industry" -culture innovative entrepreneurship 47 c) Culture 57 d) Digital Poland 61 e) Social capital 66 2. Family and security 73 a) Energy and environmental security 74 b) Strategic security and defense 80 • defense policy 80 • our allies 84 www.platforma.org c) d) e) f) Foreign policy 87 Family 99 Health 107 Sports 118 3. A free citizen and an efficient state 127 a) An efficient state 130 • administration of justice 130 • efficient administration 137 • taxes and other charges 145 b) Regional development 148 c) Infrastructure 153 4. Stable economy 161 • Safe Money 169 • Pensions and the labor market 171 • Agriculture 177 • Clean environment 184 6In 2007, I promised Poles a change. I gave my word: we will change the style of politics. Our actions will be rational and predictable. We will present a new type of leadership: courageous, defending our interests, but not aggressive. I assured that I and my government will work with all our strength to improve the quality of life of Polish women and men. I said: we need more trust, less suspicion. More cooperation aimed at realizing the aspirations of Poles and taking advantage of the histo-rical opportunity created by joining the 9www.platforma.org European Union, and less bickering. More hope, less fear. When the Oby- watelska Platform was founded ten years ago, we formed it in protest against bad politics. We knew that we had to take up the challenge and defeat both those who appropriated the state and democracy at the time, and those who, in the name of a breakthrough, were ready to turn everything upside down, even questioning what was sensible and useful in Poland's post-1989 transformation. That rebellion, dictated by the impulse of the heart, was soon reinforced by the idea of a "civic Poland," which remains our guidepost to this day. In 2007, we announced "good change." Our goal was not only to remove PiS from power. Even more important were the dreams of a strong and modern Poland in a united Europe, which we regard as a priority that stems from a deep understanding of the meaning of our history and the raison d'etre of our country. From the beginning, the Civic Platform has been a meeting place and joint activity of various political circles, as well as friendly associations and organizations that, sharing our ideals, have developed activities in local communities, in their regions and municipalities. Our program platform is thus a synthesis of 10multiple styles and traditions of thinking about the state and democracy. Therefore, among us today are both advocates of freedom and change, as well as of continuity and authority, conservative liberals and Christian democrats, traditionalists and social democrats. We are neither from the right nor from the left. We are a party open to all who are close to the ideals of a civic state. Such a state does not impose beliefs on the citizen, does not instruct or exclude anyone. Such a state accepts the complexity of reality, rejects political radicalism and violence, and thus defends what remains closest to us -the meeting of freedom and solidarity under the rule of law. We have become the "New Center." Thanks to your trust, we began the great modernization of the country at the beginning of 2008, even though at the time we took over the government no one knew how serious a test we would be put to by the global crisis and the tragic events in the country. We undertook the work of modernization in cooperation with Poles in all corners of the Fatherland, using EU funds like no one before in Poland and Europe. We are running for another term of office, because we know how to usefully invest in development and obtain new EU funds until 2020. We know how to manage them together with you to complete the construction of a strong Poland and close the gap between us and the richest countries of the West. This is in spite of the often emotional, harsh politics, www.platforma.org My government has tried to build public trust. Trust is often a scarce commodity in Poland, but I note with satisfaction that international surveys indicate that Poles trust each other more now than they did four years ago. This gives me faith that the second stage of modernization -the dream of making Poland truly modern and prosperous -is within our reach. As for the first stage of modernization, we have succeeded a lot. Not only because the realization of our commitments is shown by statistics, but also because I see with my own eyes that Poland -from the Baltic Sea to the Tatra Mountains -has become a huge construction site. On a scale hitherto unknown in Poland, we are building highways and local roads, huge stadiums and Orliki, sewage treatment plants and modern laboratories. I believe that Poland is on the right path. A road on which we are consistently improving the quality of life for people -in the city and in the countryside. Consensus. Not all projects that have been started have been completed, and we have not avoided mistakes. Renovations are a nuisance, they interfere with daily life. They sometimes cause natural impatience or even justified anger. But we need to be clear that with our joint efforts we are building and modernizing our country under the conditions of the deepest economic crisis in the world www.platforma.org for more than 70 years. We can see what havoc it wreaked even in the US and in prosperous Europe. For us, it meant that not all ambitious plans could be realized as quickly as we would have liked. However, thanks to sound policies, our economy was the only one in Europe to keep growing. We were hit by tragedies -the Smolensk catastrophe and natural disasters. But at the same time, these difficult internal and external circumstances showed the great potential of our nation and the ability to overcome difficulties. Four years of our rule have shown that the con-ception of a policy based on confidence in the reasonableness, entrepreneurship and industriousness of Poles has yielded results. We disagree with those who today belittle Polish achievements and claim that everything is wrong in Poland. With those who sow doubt and try to deprive Poles of pride in their achievements. But the global crisis is not over yet. In many countries of the Union, the problems of debt and lack of competitiveness are far from being solved, and we must continue to pursue a sensible policy of growth and stability. Therefore, I firmly believe that Poland cannot afford experiments and political instability. We are running for another term because we know how to correct our own and others' mistakes. We are taking a test of governing in difficult, crisis times -governing based on policy cooperation, social dialogue and intergenerational solidarity. In the future, too, we will weigh, in the spirit of solidarity, how much money we are transferring to the future and how much to the dignified life of Poles today. Now it's time for the second stage of modernization, to complete the construction we started. I ask for your support because I want to make modern Polish history with you. Here, for the first time since we regained independence in 1989, a democratically elected government has a chance to continue for another full term the work of building a strong Poland. Continuity in government allows us to make wise use of the experience we have gained, and with this scale of challenges and in the face of crisis, this is priceless in my opinion. If we win the elections, we will conduct the next stage of building Poland better. We must move from raising efficiency and capital accumulation to building wealth based on innovation and creating a competitive advantage based on knowledge and creativity. Only in this way will we make the next leap and enter t h e world's first league. I wrote about this in March in an article about the third wave of modernity. I call it the "smart growth" stage. Its foundation will be creativity and cooperation. Creativity is our national talent and great reserve, which we need to make greater use of. But it is not www.platforma.org is enough. We need to encase our creativity with the habit of cooperation, working together for the good of the community -the local, national and European one. Without social ties, inter-community solidarity and social capital, no one has managed to build wealth. The next financial perspective from the Union and our own funds will become the glue between creativity and cooperation, the foundation on which we will base intelligent development and the second stage of Poland's modernization. We have shown that we use EU funds like no one else before us. Almost all of the 67 billion euros are already distributed. Thanks to our experience, but also thanks to this new approach to cooperation and creativity, we will make even better use of the next billions we will negotiate for 20142020. We are talking about about 400 billion zlotys of EU funds and our own co-financing. We will support and develop creativity from kindergarten to university, in a family business and a big company, in a municipality and a big city. We care about the development and success of all Polish municipalities. Each of them has its own specificity, its own creativity, which our state will support. Creativity is the energy of the young and the ideas of artists, the inventions of engineers and entrepreneurs. The state will be flexible in these activities, serving the aspirations of Poles, listening to their opinions. and criticism. If you show confidence in us on October 9, together we will realize the vision of smart growth and remain a growth leader in Europe. Our program presents concrete actions that make up the vision of Poland's smart development and the third wave of modernity. Creativity, cooperation and good use of EU and own funds will be the basis of all our activities. We have divided them into four levels: 1. Innovation and social capital 2. Family and security 3. A free citizen and an efficient state 4. Stable economy We present specific activities in these areas in detail in our program. There are big and small issues there, but what they have in common is that they are important for people and will serve the further modernization of Poland. Let me present examples of the pro-positions included in it. Let them become an incentive to read our program. 1. We will negotiate more than 300 billion zlotys in the 2014-2020 EU budget for our smart growth program, which we will support with another 100 billion zlotys of our own funds. www.platforma.org 2. The salaries of the budget sphere, frozen due to the crisis, will begin to rise again. Just as we have consistently increased teachers' salaries, we will gradually raise the salaries of other socially important professional groups, starting with university teachers and police officers. 3. By 2013, we will have put in place solutions that guarantee Poland high revenues from shale gas production, which we will allocate to the security of future pensions. 4. In the likeness of 1,800 Eagles, we will build 1,000 Skylights -cultural centers and community libraries that will foster creativity and build teamwork skills. 5. During the term, we will increase spending on Third Age Uni-versities and group health classes for seniors. 6. Fewer and fewer children are being born in Poland. To remedy this, we will dramatically increase the family allowance for the third and subsequent child. 7. Within the framework of the "Copernicus" program, we will create "Cen-tra of Science" in each province by 2020, whose task, similar to that of the successful capital project, will be to inspire young people to science and innovation. 8. We will abolish PIT tax forms. 9. We will reduce the headline VAT rate to 22% in 2014, when the global economic crisis should give way to the recovery phase. 10. We will increase tax benefits for pension savers to motivate the propensity to save for the long term. 11. We will provide access to broadband Internet in every municipality. 12. We will gradually introduce the e-book to schools by 2015. 13. We will give Poles the right to choose to whom they will transfer their health premiums, introducing competition for the National Health Fund. 14. We will introduce renewable seasonal contracts for workers into the Labor Code, which will increase employment stability among young people. 15. We will do away with the obligation for drivers to carry their vehicle registration and driver's license, which the police and other services will be able to check by connecting electronically with the relevant office. 16. We will radically limit the access of special services and police to citizens' phone records and increase control over the use of wiretaps. www.platforma.org 17. We will reduce the deadline for issuing building permits from about 300 to 100 days, and the number of procedures from more than 30 to 15. We will reduce the time a citizen has to wait for his case to be resolved in court by one-third. 18. We will aim for a balanced budget before the end of the term. We will reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio to 48% in 2015 and to 40% in 2018, so we will have lower interest rates and faster economic growth. 19. Following the example of the most developed countries, we will introduce legislation to guarantee women "equal pay for equal work," eliminating discrimination against women in the workplace. 20. The best high school graduates will receive academic scholarships from the first year of stu-ditions. 21. We will allocate one billion zlotys of EU funds to the Rural Enterprise Fund. The vision we set forth in this program is not closed, deaf to the ideas of others. Za-confidence and creativity mean that we will continue to be open to improving it through social dialogue. Today, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland and leader of the Civic Platform, I stand for a second term. I want to build a friendly www.platforma.org Poland and a country that we will proudly say is ours. This desire grows out of the conviction that our Homeland is the common home of us all. A home where Poles have the opportunity and chance to create a better future. For themselves and for the country. I am asking for your vote. Together we will do more. FOUR TIERS OF SMART GROWTH 1. Innovation and social capital 2. Family and security 3. A free citizen and an efficient state 4. Stable economy innovation and social capital1. Innovation and social capital a) Education from kindergarten to professional work • children • students • universities b) "From idea to industry" -a culture of innovative entrepreneurship c) Culture d) Digital Poland e) Social capital www.platforma.org 24 innovation and social capitalIn the modern world, the prerequisites for the inteli-gent development of any country have become the creativity of people and the innovativeness of the economy. In the Civic Platform, we are convinced that without well-educated and competent employees, innovative entrepreneurs, scientists working at the highest level, creative artists, architects, representatives of all professions, there can be no rapid and sustainable development of Poland. We need to create a modern education system "from kindergarten to professional work", good conditions for the transfer of scientific achievements to industry, support artists and increase access to culture, and finally build a "digital Poland". We know how to do it. www.platforma.org Education "from kindergarten to professional work" The future of our country will be determined by whether we will be able to compete with knowledge and skills in a changing world, to feel comfortable in a globalized economy. The key to this is education -on the one hand focused on values and building the identity of our community, on the other on the highest level of knowledge and its creative use in teamwork. The speed of change in the world makes learning new things practically lifelong. Already in this term, many projects have been implemented to increase accessibility to education at all levels -from primary to higher education. The changes have extended to preschool education, school education, higher education and the functioning of science. However, we realize that this is only the beginning of building a top-quality education system. innovation and social capitalCHILDREN We want children to take up learning faster and develop their individual abilities, following the example of the world's most developed countries. With a good combination of play and learning, children will be eager to embark on a path of skill acquisition and achievement-promoting culture, which will enable them to find rewarding, good jobs in adulthood. What we have accomplished • Since the 2006/2007 school year, the spread of preschool education among children aged 3 to 5 has increased by almost 20%. In the 2010/2011 school year, space was provided in kindergartens for 725,000 children. This is as many as 250 thousand more than four years ago. This means that 64% of children aged 3-5 are covered by preschool education. This has happened, among other things, thanks to the fact that -in addition to large establishments -we have introduced the possibility of establishing small pre-schools, so-called points and teams, most often in small towns and rural areas. About a thousand of them have been established. www.platforma.org Number of kindergartens 8500 7746 7811 2005 2007 2011 Source: MEN • The greatest increase in the spread of preschool education was recorded in rural areas. In the group of 3-5 year olds, the rate doubled -from 21.4% in 2006/2007 to 43.1% in 2010/2011. In the group of 5 year olds, one can even speak of a civilization leap -the rate of participation in pre-school education increased from 32.6% in 2006/2007 to 64.8% in 2010/2011. • We have lowered the elementary school starting age to 6, following the model of the most developed countries. Such an educational model takes advantage of children's potential to learn at the most receptive period of their mental life, which will give them a better start in adult life in a competitive economy through knowledge. On the occasion of lowering the school age, we created a program of innovation and social capitalcombining education and play -"Joyful School." Schools are equipped with the necessary learning tools for the youngest and safe playgrounds. We have already built about a thousand such places. We have allocated almost PLN 2.5 billion for t h e program until 2014. Playground in Gniezno built under the "Joyful School" program • We have introduced a new core curriculum, which creates opportunities for students to develop their abilities and interests individually. Overloaded, cumbersome programs for students and teachers have passed into history. Schools can use modern techniques, computer programs and teaching aids to a greater extent than before. www.platforma.org • We have introduced the study of a foreign language from the first year of elementary school and compulsory study of a second foreign language as early as junior high school. Good language skills are often a prerequisite for finding a good job today. • Mathematics has again become a compulsory high school graduation subject after 27 years. This, coupled with the creation of "applied majors" in studies, has led to an increased interest among young people in studying science, technology and natural sciences. And this increases the chances of later graduates to find satisfying work and will enable Poland to join the world's most developed economies. • We raised teachers' salaries. The increase in educators' salaries was about 40% between 2007 and 2011. We are consistently fulfilling our commitments. We know that without passionate teachers receiving decent salaries, we will not be able to build an educational system of the highest world level, and thus create conditions for future generations to have a prosperous life. innovation and social capitalAverage salary of teachers (in PLN) 4817 3770 3265 3479 2906 2539 2706 2618 1814 1933 1451 1546 2005 2007 2011 trainee contractual appointed certified Source: MEN What we will do • We will break with the rigid distinction between childcare for children aged 0-3 and then preschool education. These two stages will be integrated into a coherent system of care and education, and complemented by an offer of assistance to parents in the process of raising their children or diagnosing any deficits. • We will extend to all children aged 3 and 4 the right to preschool education. Thanks to the partial subsidization of kindergartens www.platforma.org From the state budget we will manage to provide a place for every child in them. Local governments will not be left alone with this task. • By 2015, we will gradually introduce e-books in schools. High-quality interactive textbooks for all subjects in grades IV-VI of elementary school will be available online for everyone. They will be a supplement to the curriculum or an al-ternative to the traditional textbook. Enabling students to use e-books is a realization of the idea of equal, free, open and truly modern education. It means lighter school bags for students and savings for parents. • We will equip playgrounds at schools with scientific in-stalations -chessboards, sundials, pendulums and models of physical phenomena. Made of solid materials, they will serve to stimulate curiosity about the world among children. • We will introduce changes to the school curricula so that our children acquire the appropriate competencies for independent thinking, cre-ativity and teamwork. Innovation, IT skills and the project-based nature of school tasks will become the basis of the curriculum. innovation and social capital• We will create career counseling in middle school. zjach. We will integrate vocational education into the economy. We will abolish legal barriers to the operation of small workplace schools by employers. We will introduce elements of teaching law and entrepreneurship into the high school curriculum to foster a culture of resourcefulness, an understanding of economic processes and thereby promote economic growth and employment. • Entrepreneurship will be allowed to be a pre-matriculation exam subject. Classes will be taught by practitioners, including entrepreneurs. • We will also include philosophy in the curriculum for high school students. This is a European standard. Thanks to this, we will increase the creativity of young people and prepare them for an active civilian life. This is an opportunity for hundreds of humanities graduates to find work. • We will strengthen the role of an open and active school during the school year. All kinds of additional activities, such as clubs, sports, scouting, should be available within the school. www.platforma.org • We will develop cooperation between schools and NGOs to create an attractive range of extracurricular activities, promote attitudes of social involvement, volunteerism, sensitivity to the needs of others and the development of students' passions and talents. The school during the holiday season, if possible, should be used as a local educational and civic center. • We will build a network of "Astrobases", i.e. small ob-servatories of the sky. Each "Astrobase" will be equipped with a telescope and computer stations. Astrobase, which is a future small astronomical observatory innovation and social capital• As part of the "Copernicus" program, we will create fifteen regional Science Centers by 2020. This will be a nationwide program to which consortia of elementary schools, high schools, universities and self-governments will be invited to submit a concept for establishing a regional science center in their area. As part of the consortia, networks of schools and universities would set up laboratories and make the knowledge of scientists available for scientific research by young people. The program would include activities to popularize science, organizing school and student research teams. Following the example of the Copernicus Science Center, we will create fifteen regional Science Centers. www.platforma.org • We will be introducing an incentive character of teachers' professional advancement and to enhance the prestige and competitiveness of the profession. Teachers will be prepared to carry out the tasks associated with the new model of education, and will have the competence to use modern technologies during classes. The headmaster of a public school will have greater flexibility in managing his school, so as to be able to motivate teachers to achieve the best possible teaching results. • We will provide the opportunity for real impact roof parents on the way the school operates. Suggestions made by parent groups regarding their children's education should be translated into decisions made by teachers. • We will create new centers for Polish education abroad, as well as support institutions abroad through methodological assistance and access to teaching materials. • We will create conditions for the inclusion of more children with disabilities in mainstream schools. We will create conditions and encourage local governments to provide additional subsidies to mainstream schools that meet or plan to meet high standards for adaptation to the needs of the innovation and social capitaldisabled students (specialized care, appropriate organization of school work, appropriate infrastructure standards). The source of funding for such programs can also be PFRON funds. • We will restrict the sale of unhealthy food for children on school premises. Instead, under the slogan "Stop junk food," we will recommend the inclusion of dishes with healthy food in school cafeteria meals, as a complement to the "School Fruit" program. • We will increase the activity of schools in offering free lunches. Despite the government's expanded nutrition program, one in four schools is unable to take advantage of today's offer. For the most part, this applies to small schools with fewer than 100 students. STUDENTS Part of Poland's success in recent years has been the leap in the number of university graduates. In the next stage of Poland's modernization, we need to focus on raising the quality of university studies and aligning them with labor market expectations, so that more graduates can www.platforma.org find a job quickly. In recent years, we have already introduced changes to improve the attractiveness and quality of education, with particular emphasis on technical majors. We will continue to strengthen the system of supporting gifted schoolchildren, especially those from less affluent families and from outside large urban centers, in their access to the best universities through a scholarship and loan system. What we have accomplished • We have guaranteed a new system of preferential student loans with a 100 percent state guarantee for the poorest and the possibility of a wider range of remissions for academic performance. Number of loans guaranteed by the Bank of National Economy 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 academic year MNiSW data 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 innovation and social capital• We have introduced a 51 percent transportation discount for students, such as for train travel. We have extended this concession for those between the first and second degrees, guaranteeing that they retain their student status during the summer vacation. We have also introduced a 51 percent transportation allowance for doctoral students. • We have ensured wider access to tuition-free studies for all students by introducing the principle that free second majors benefit the best students, just as currently the best high school graduates get into free studies. Already, several thousand students receive high (up to PLN 1,000 per month) scholarships in the commissioned majors, and technical universities top the rankings of popularity among university applicants. • In the 2011/2012 academic year, we will reform the scholarship system so that more students will have access to social scholarships and academic scholarships will be higher. What we will do • The best high school graduates from the first year of stu-dios will be awarded academic scholarships for the www.platforma.org Based on high school graduation results. Such a system is already in place for the government's ordered majors program. For other majors, it will operate from the 2012/2013 academic year. • As of October 2011, based on the higher education reform we adopted, fees charged to students by universities will be eliminated: for revision exams, board exams, diploma exams, registration for the next semester and year of study, issuance of a diploma supplement, evaluation of the diploma thesis and issuance of an internship log. • We want to make it easier for students to find jobs and low-cost rental housing. We plan to introduce at universities the function of career animators in career offices, supporting students in their contacts with employers. We will create academic databases of private inns, whose owners, in exchange for a guaranteed year-round lump-sum income, would offer students lower-than-commercial rental housing prices. • Together with employers, we will establish a foundation for internships in leading companies operating in Poland for students, including those studying in the humanities, in order to innovation and social capitalfacilitate their acquisition of practical knowledge and entry into the labor market. • We will support universities in reviewing their courses of study in terms of their translation into the professional and scientific success of graduates. We will increase the emphasis on student project work. • We will set up a special fund competition "Generation of the Future," which funds the participation of highly talented young people in prestigious international competitions. • Each year, 100 of the most outstanding studentstions in Poland will receive a "Diamond Grant" to carry out scientific research. • As of the 2011/2012 academic year, at all universities, students will evaluate lecturers, and these evaluations will be taken into account as one of the elements of the periodic evaluation of lecturers. As of January 1, 2012, students will have access to reviews of their theses and dissertations, and the defense, if requested by students, will be allowed to be public. www.platforma.org UNIVERSITIES Higher education has undergone sweeping changes over the past two decades. The number of public universities has increased and nonpublic forms of education have been introduced, so that the number of students has increased almost fivefold. Now we are implementing a higher education reform, the effect of which is to raise the level of our universities so that they can educate professionals for an innovative economy. We want graduates of Polish universities to obtain education and skills better than graduates from other European countries. What we have accomplished • We have introduced pro-quality mechanisms into the system of higher education -more funding for the best academic units and for the best teaching. This will make it possible to identify the best scientific and didactic centers in Poland, and in the future in Europe, that educate professional staff, including those for the economy. innovation and social capitalOutlays for higher education (in billion zlotys) 11.87 9.94 8.87 2005 2007 2011 Source: Ministry of Science and Higher Education • In 2008, we launched a government program of ordered faculties to make Polish society better prepared for technological challenges. The best students choosing technical majors, such as computer science or mecha-tronics, receive high incentive scholarships, up to PLN 1,000. As a result, polytechnic universities are experiencing a real renaissance. For every vacancy at polytechnics there are 3.9 candidates, and at universities there are 3.5. The biggest promotion was recorded in construction, which was ranked 2nd among the most popular studies in Poland. Three years ago it occupied the 11th position. www.platforma.org 4 3.5 3 2.5 2 4.5 1.5 1 0.5 0 2007/2008 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 universities teacher training technical colleges colleges technical AWF colleges PWSZ Source: Ministry of Science and Higher Education • We have allocated more than PLN 1 billion to expand and enrich the educational offerings at universities, with a particular focus on English-language studies, and to programs that enable universities to cooperate with the business sector, mainly in the development of degree programs. • Since the 2011/2012 academic year, we have provided funding to non-public universities for the implementation of doctoral programs, thus promoting investment in staff and the quality of education at the best non-public universities. innovation and social capital• We have increased the university's ability to con- stitute studies by more extensively employing scholars from the best centers abroad. An outstanding scholar from abroad or a Polish citizen who holds a doctoral degree and has five years of experience in scientific work abroad may -upon arriving in Poland -be granted the status of an independent researcher equivalent to a habilitation. This is intended as an incentive to undertake scientific work in our country. • The creation of the West Pomeranian University of Technology has shown that consolidation of universities to create stronger academic centers is the way to increase the quality of education. Therefore, we decided to create more favorable conditions for such mergers. Strong academic centers created in this way will be able to compete more effectively with their foreign counterparts. • We have concluded agreements for more than PLN 13 billion, and have already spent more than PLN 3 billion of EU funds on investments in teaching buildings and laboratories, including the National Center for Electromagnetic Radiation at Jagiellonian University in Cracow, the Lower Silesian Center for Materials and Biomaterials, the Wrocław Research Center, and the CENT I and CENT II Centers for Modern Technologies at Warsaw www.platforma.org University. innovation and social capitalCollegium Humanisticum of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in ToruńWhat we will do • We will continue to implement higher education reform. We will select fifteen National Scientific Leading Centers, which, with the best scientific staff and stu-dentists, will conduct scientific and academic work at the highest, world-class level. • Starting in 2012, the state budgeted pro-quality subsidy will begin to operate www.platforma.org For universities, a total of PLN 230 million. The money will go to fifteen National Scientific Leading Centers, non-public u n i v e r s i t i e s pursuing doctoral studies, and universities conducting 25 awarded majors. • Starting in 2013, for the next three years, we will implement significant salary increases for academic ka-dry. "From idea to industry" -a culture of innovative entrepreneurship Smart development must be based on modern scientific research and its rapid transmission to the economy. The ongoing reform creates better conditions for practicing science at the highest level, and motivates scientists to carry out implementation projects and benefit from the sale of the products of their own scientific and technical thought. Critical to the success of the second stage of modernization will be increased investment in research and development. To achieve this, the state must use its not inconsiderable resources more effectively to mobilize the private sector to spend more on research. Today, most spending innovation and social capitalfor research comes from the public sector, while in innovation-leading countries it is the private sector that generates the majority of R&D spending. What we have accomplished • We have established the National Science Center, a nondependent agency that funds preliminary and basic research. The functioning of the NCN is based on the models of the European Research Council. This will allow us to increase the number of Polish scholars obtaining ERC grants. NCN has a budget of about PLN 500 million. At least 20% of all grants from NCN are guaranteed to young scientists. In the first announced competitions, young scientists submitted nearly 4,000 applications, which is more than half of all submitted applications. • We have changed the rules of the National Research and Development Center, which allocates grants for applied research. We have made it easier for companies to apply -either on their own or in consortiums with research centers -for grants from this agency, as we have eliminated the threshold (400 thousand euros) of research expenditures that determined the allocation of grants. Now any company, even those that have not previously funded scientific research, can apply for a www.platforma.org apply for money from the NCBiR. The agency's budget is 1 billion zlotys. • We have created a culture of funding science through competitions and grants -based on clear and fair criteria, not only by establishing new institutions (such as the National Science Center) and procedures, but also by systemically increasing the pool of funds for grants by more than 100% in three years. This improves the efficiency of funds allocated to research. We make sure that grants go to the best scientists and to the most promising projects. Public funding for research grants in thousands of zlotys 1 200 000 1 000 000 800 000 600 000 400 000 200 000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 National Center for Research and Development National Science Center Source: Ministry of Science and Higher Education innovation and social capital• We have surrounded young scientists with special care. In addition to providing a minimum of 20% of grants from the National Science Center, we have addressed the "Iuventus Plus" program to them. The program, worth PLN 40 million, is dedicated to specific research goals. Open con- courses are open to young scientists who have begun advanced research and want to continue it. The first edition of the program benefited 300 young scientists. • We have secured funding for strategic research projects through the NCBiR. State-funded work is underway on, among other things, unmanned sa-molotors and the first Polish satellites, research on a cure for atherosclerosis and the innovative use of ma- cells in medicine. • To ensure that no creative idea for a technological solution escapes our attention, we have introduced the possibility for individuals not affiliated with any research centers to apply for funds for this research. • We have created an equal opportunity for all scientists to access the results of the latest scientific research through the free Virtual Science Library system, available at every university since 2010. The government allocated more than 160 million zlotys for this purpose in 2011. www.platforma.org • We have created better opportunities for scientific advancement for women scientists, who can thus have broader representation in the governing bodies of science and higher education, and maternity leave is not counted among the expiring deadlines for scientific advancement and applying for research grants or professional mobility. • We have introduced procedures to support increasing cooperation, as well as the consolidation of research activities and the use of joint research infrastructure in the form of scientific or scientific-industrial centers created by scientific institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences with universities and research institutes. Number of ongoing research projects 12 000 10 000 8 000 6 000 4 000 2 000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source: Ministry of Science and Higher Education innovation and social capital• We support the funding of research not only in the bio-info-techno area, but also in the sporial and humanities. In October 2010, we established the National Program for the Development of the Humanities to support research important to national heritage. Within the framework of this program, we have allocated 50 million zlotys for grants to young scholars and the translation and publication of the most outstanding Polish works abroad. • We have systematically increased funding for science in Poland from public funds (state budget and structural funds). Outlays on science (in billion zlotys) 6.37 5.38 3.75 3.09 2005 2007 2011 2012 Source: Ministry of Science and Higher Education • Since 2008, we have seen an increase in innovat-. ciality in Poland. According to the data of the next edition of the innovation ranking "European Innovation www.platforma.org Scoreboard," published in 2010, Poland is raising its level of innovation. The Global Innovation Index 2011 report indicates that Poland has moved up 13 places since 2008 and is now ranked 43rd. What we will do • We will systematically increase the budgets of the two independent agencies that fund scientific research -the National Science Center and the National Center for Research and Development. In 2015, each of them will have at its disposal a sum of at least PLN 1.5 billion for scientific grants for scientific and industrial consortia and scientists. • In 2012, we will establish the Polish Innovation Fund for Research and Development in Enterprises, financed from the working assets of the State Treasury. The fund will t a r g e t innovative micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. • We will increase the interest of both academics and business (micro, small and medium-sized) in mutual cooperation to produce innovative goods and services. We want to make it possible to finance the initial phase of operations with budgetary funds innovation and social capitalR&D undertaken in the private sec-tor to systematically increase its commitment to financing this activity. • We will integrate the postgraduate internship program into the curriculum. We will encourage both employers and academics to strengthen cooperation, including through the ordering of education majors by industry. It is also necessary to continuously improve the efficiency of the university's Techno- logy Transfer Centers and Innovation Clusters and Business Incubators. • We want to create a model for promoting innovative entrepreneurship, increasing incentives for "start ups," allocating grants to enable young micro-entrepreneurs to commission research projects and implement innovative solutions. To this end, he created-us Academic Innovation Incubators. As part of the program, we will support universities in the establishment and development of already existing Academic Business Incubators. They will support students in starting businesses based on modern technologies that will be produced during the program. Students will have the opportunity, among other things, to transfer the cost of insurance www.platforma.org Social and accounting and legal costs for the incubator, support of the university's scientific staff and independent experts, participation in schools on, for example, patent law, access to office infrastructure and the Internet. A 15-20% stake in the company and its profits (including patent copyrights) will be held by the incubator. • The road from idea to industry must become shorter and shorter. It is necessary to introduce a system of material incentives for each individual scientist, as well as students, in order to develop scientific creativity at universities and research units. Therefore, the copyright tax on invention will be frozen until revenue from the sale of the product is generated. We will also introduce incentives for academics, such as special task allowances or salary reductions, to foster engagement in the development of academic entrepreneurship and innovation. • We will continue the "TOP 500 Innovators" program, which serves Polish innovation pioneers to receive internships abroad. By 2015, nearly 500 Polish scientists will take part in a program of one-year internship stays at the world's most prestigious universities (including Harvard, Stanford, MIT). innovation and social capital• We will open an advice desk for scientists, inventors and entrepreneurs at the National Research and Development Center. We will help them obtain funding for their projects. We will also shorten the procedure for obtaining both European and Polish patents. • We will announce a "Grants to Start" program for units that need funding to start work in newly built labs. Special start-up grants for new scientific units will be distributed. • We will provide opportunities for commercialization of services and products made on the basis of laboratories built with EU funds. • We will lobby the EC and EU member states to locate a major research infrastructure laboratory of supranational importance in Poland as part of the European Research Area (ERA). • Research infrastructure included in the European Roadmap within the European Research Area will be able to obtain the status of "National Laboratories" with the possibility of being used by all interested researchers in the country and region. www.platforma.org One of them will become, for example, the synchrotron at the Jagiellonian University. • As part of the new EU budget for 2014- -2020, we will launch a new operational program dedicated to science and innovation, financed by EU funds and the state budget, to finance research infrastructure, research and international cooperation of Polish scientists. Culture The cultural policy of the state should strengthen social capital, building creativity, but also interpersonal ties, strengthening the sense of community and self-esteem of Polish women and men. This capital is today becoming a source of realization of Poland's ambition to catch up with Western European countries. Under the influence of dialogue with the community of people involved in the development of culture in our country, we have initiated a process of changing its perception by the political elite. We do not see spending on culture solely as a form of support for our artists. We want to build a modern knowledge-based economy and support smart economic growth -as recommended by the EU's flagship 2020 Strategy -so it's time to unleash the potential inherent in the cultural and creative industries. innovation and social capitalThe creative industry accounts for almost 3% of GDP in the EU. In Poland, too, it can make a larger contribution to every sector of the economy, instilling creativity and innovation. We have begun to think about culture in an innovative way, strengthening the presence of Polish culture and creativity in the world, especially in European universities and other cultural insti-tutions. In our philosophy of governance, state cultural policy has become one of the key strategies for national development. What we have accomplished • We have begun digitizing cultural resources, so that everyone has increasing access to the treasures of national heritage via the Internet. We have allocated 85 million zlotys for these activities. We have established the National Au- diowizual Institute, which takes care of digital resources on behalf of t h e government. • We have taken care of the art education of the youngest. As of September 1, 2011, we have restored music and visual arts to elementary schools. As part of the campaign "Music develops. Buy an instrument for your child," we urge parents to get their children interested in playing small in- struments. With a view to improving music school equipment, in www.platforma.org 2010 we launched the "Piano for Schools" program. innovation and social capital• We have supported art education. Instruction worth PLN 25 million has been purchased for schools and music academies. Art s c h o o l s in Krakow, Czestochowa, Radom, Lodz, and Tarnow, among others, have been expanded with EU funds. In Szczecin, we established the Academy of Art, Poland's first public university combining various fields of art. • We are implementing programs to modernize libraries in cooperation with community partners -nearly 3,500 libraries have been connected to broadband Internet for 500 million zlotys. • We established the National Heritage Institute and the National Institute of Museology and the Protection of Public Collections, which handled the project to build the Frederic Chopin Museum in Warsaw, the renovation of the Gallery of 19th Century Polish Art in Krakow's Cloth Hall, and the renovation of the Ku-bicki Arcades at the Royal Castle in Warsaw. Total spending on national heritage protection under the SLD-UP, Law and Justice, PO-PSL governments (in billion zlotys) 2.5 1.3 1.2 2002-2005 2006-2007 2008-2010 www.platforma.org Source: MKiDN 62 innovation and social capital• We are building cultural infrastructure. In the area-. not the whole country, we are carrying out or have carried out a number of investments, such as the National Forum of Music in Wroclaw, the Frederic Cho-pin Museum in Warsaw, the Museum of World War II in Gdansk, the Museum of the History of Polish Jews, the International Center of Cultures in Kielce, the Podlasie Opera and Philharmonic, and the Warmia and Mazury Philharmonic. Podlasie Opera and Philharmonic in Bialystok What we will do • We will make records "Pact for Culture," in which we pledged to increase the www.platforma.org funding of culture from the state budget to at least 1% of all budget expenditures, starting in 2012 (excluding European and local government funds). • In 2011-2015, together with local governments, we will allocate 375 million zlotys to expand library infrastructure, build new libraries, equip existing libraries with broadband Internet access. We will couple this program with the idea of building Świetliks. • We will improve storage conditions for collections important to national heritage. We face the opportunity to save cultural achievements recorded on perishable media, so our priority will be further digitization of archives and library collections. Digital Poland When we talk about smart growth, calling it the third wave of modernity, we know that the biggest challenge is to move from activities "analog", paper-based, to digital. However, we are not talking about a technological challenge, but a civilization challenge. Because Poland in 2011 is innovation and social capitalAn unevenly developed digital society. Only slightly more than half of Poles use the Internet. There are huge differences between those already included in the digital society and those excluded from it. Lack of access and non-use of digital technologies is now becoming the same social exclusion as poverty or lack of education once was. The second important aspect of Digital Poland is the use of technology and the Internet by the administration to better serve citizens and the economy. Digital Poland must support the creativity of Poles by making it easier for them to interact with the administration. Tasks related to informatization need to be implemented in every area of social life -in the health care system, the judiciary, education and social welfare. What we have accomplished • We have increased the number of public services available over the Internet: more than a million cases have already been filed with the e-court, hundreds of thousands of Poles use the ability to send PIT returns over the Internet, millions of people have taken advantage of electronic access to land registers, entrepreneurs can already settle their accounts based on electronic invoices, and surveillance has been introduced into the Polish justice system. www.platforma.org electronic, and entrepreneurs can use a portal to set up a company online -www.firma.gov.pl. • Operating since 2009, the team "Poland Cyfrowa" engages representatives of high-tech circles and co ordinates initiatives in the field of information society. The results of its work are implemented by all ministries. What we will do • We will provide universal Internet access by 2015. We will do this on the basis of the Law on Supporting the Development of Broadband Services and Networks in Telecommunications, adopted in 2010, which facilitates investment processes. In the coming years, we will complete public investments in broadband infrastructure as part of the Eastern Poland Broadband Network project. In sparsely populated areas, we will provide wireless Internet access, using frequencies vacated or released by the army. To speed things up, we will launch a systemic project to support local government units in building ICT infrastructure (under the Broadband Act). Within three years innovation and social capitalIn-frastructure will be built or upgraded to ensure the connection of at least 1.2 million new broadband lines. For the success of this project, solutions will also be put in place in addition to those already in place to make fuller use of the in-frastructure of the water, sewage and power grid operators. • By 2015, we will integrate the administration's information systems so that offices can communicate with each other in real time, saving citizens from running around the offices (see the section on deregulation for details). • In cooperation with NGOs, we will prepare and implement a project in cultural centers, libraries and Universities of the Third Age aimed at eliminating digital exclusion of adults, including seniors. • We will implement digital terrestrial television in Poland. We will realize the European Digital Agenda by developing high-speed and ult ra-high -speed broadband networks using fiber-optic technology. • We will undertake further tasks related to the digitization of analog content. Thanks to www.platforma.org Digital technologies will create a new circulation of culture and information. The rules of access to resources will change and they will become digital. There will be greater accessibility to culture and national heritage, access to knowledge and education will be improved, and the pace of information exchange will improve the quality of scientific research. The task for the next term will be to digitize the common cultural heritage and support archiving processes. • We will continue to work on legal changes enabling full and open access to public information for its new use by citizens and innovative entrepreneurs. We are developing a unified system for an electronic Public Information Bulletin. We want all public information to be on one page. • We will reduce regulatory barriers to selling goods and providing services electronically. • We are introducing electronic methods of state-to-state communication into public administration. -citizen, providing greater involvement citizens in the process of governance and by increasing the transparency of the lawmaking process. innovation and social capitalSocial capital Social capital is the latent potential of people and institutions, which -based on trust and the ability to cooperate -contributes to the country's social and economic development. Surveys show that Po- licians trust each other more than at the beginning of the current government's term, although their trust in public institutions is low. Meanwhile, for Poland to reach the level of the most developed countries requires a further increase in trust between citizens and trust in public institutions. Therefore, in our activities we will focus on improving the state and making it citizen-friendly. In these activities, the state must find a way to support non-governmental organizations, which in mature democracies play a key role in improving the quality of social debate and discussion of development directions. www.platforma.org EBRD survey on Poles' growing confidence in themselves 70% 34% 69% 54% 67% 44% 64% 36% 62% 50% 50% 30% 45% 24% 45% 17% 44% 16% 43% 12% 38% 15% 36% 10% 36% 13% 36% 18% 35% 28%28% 12% 28% 16% 27% 7% 27% 5% 26% 19% 25% 5% 24% 8% 24% 5% 23% 17% 23% 18% 21% 3% 19% 6% Norway Denm ark Finland Sweden Netherland sSwitzerlan dBelgium United Kingdom Israel Estonia Spain Czech Republic Germany Average Cypr us France Slovenia Croatia Latvia Romania Poland Greece Hungary Russia Slovakia Ukraine Portugal Trust in other people Trust in political parties For: Poland 2030: The Third Wave of Modernity. Long-term National Development Strategy (draft) based on the European Social Survey 2008. What we have accomplished • Confidence-building and social dialogue have been the flagship goals of Civic Platform throughout its term of office. Respect for the law and the insti-tution of the state, respect for the constitutional separation of powers, the role of the media and independent control organs are the foundation of our view of the state as our common good. We have repeatedly demonstrated openness to innovation and social capitaldifferent circles and their ideas for modernizing Poland. • Building social capital is fostered by systemic changes that bring parliament and the administration closer to the citizens. This is why single-mandate electoral districts were introduced in Senate elections. This gives voters more influence over who represents them than in a system of party-list voting. Platform remains a supporter of single-mandate electoral districts also for the Sejm and, in the future, a unicameral parliament. • We have amended the Law on Public Benefit Activity and Volunteerism. One of the novelties is the possibility, introduced into the Act, of financing so-called local initiatives from local and government funds. • We have changed the way we conduct public consultations. Everyone has the right to submit comments and participate in the discussion of legislative plans. What we will do • Following the model of Eagles, we will create a nationwide network of 1,000 Skylights, or local centers www.platforma.org Development of social capital based on trust, creativity and cooperation. These centers will help integrate local communities, become tools for equalizing civilizational opportunities, acquiring practical skills and com-petences useful in the labor market. Świetliki will make it possible to develop interests and talents, provide assistance in learning, and organize and animo leisure time. Świetliki will also be able to house a kindergarten, a traditional and online library. The centers will serve local communities, which will be able to use their facilities for activities such as local associations and interest circles. "Świetlik" project, a local activity center for children and adults innovation and social capital• We will begin the process of institutional and financial strengthening of NGOs. At the moment, public funds and money from the European Union are the primary source of income for these organizations. By simplifying the rules of commissioning public tasks by local and central administration, we must create conditions for building the independence of these organizations. To this end, we will begin preparations to launch funds to build the endowments of organizations -associations and foundations. The first step in this direction has already been made in the law on grants to the Auschwitz Birkenau Foundation. • We will simplify reporting rules for NGOs with small budgets. This will allow small social groups to obtain formal organization status. These changes will go hand in hand with the civic education program in schools. • We will introduce a civic education program in elementary schools. This will happen already in the 2012/2013 school year. The program will serve to educate the competencies necessary to understand the functioning of a modern, advanced democracy and to strengthen civic attitudes. www.platforma.org • We will introduce widespread community projects in schools, where students can carry out tasks that are important to the local communities in which they and their parents live. • We will develop modern methods of communication between public administration and citizens, introduce electronic consultations and mandatory publication of voting results, such as in municipal councils, make public data sets available, support the creation of portals to monitor the activity of representatives -councilors, deputies, municipal services. • We will take measures to increase citizen participation in general elections through information policy and pro-frequency projects, including by the State Election Commission, whose tasks would be expanded to include information and promotion activities. • We will propose to reduce partions on advertising and we will allocate them on a larger scale to programmatic and substantive activities. • We will limit parliamentary immunity to reduce the distance between citizens and their representatives. innovation and social capital75 family and security2. Family and security a) Energy and environmental security b) Strategic security and defense • defense policy • our allies c) Foreign policy d) Family e) Health f) Sports www.platforma.org Energy and environmental security Energy policy today is a key element in the security and economic development of any country. Without a modern, efficient and secure energy sector, we will lose the opportunity to compete together and strengthen our position in Europe. Our goal is to secure our needs based on diversified energy sources, which will guarantee Poles electricity and gas in their homes and workplaces in any situation, even a crisis. The goal of the government in the past term was first and foremost to become independent of gas supplies from a single supplier, for which it is necessary to diversify energy and fuel sources and diversify the direction of their transmission. Our philosophy can be expressed briefly: to fulfill our obligations related to the energy and climate pact negotiated at the European Union, while taking care of the specific national interest of our economy, still based largely on coal-fired energy. A huge opportunity in this regard is provided by the shale gas resources that are most likely to be found in our territory. Their utilization family and securitywill increase our energy independence, enable us to reduce emissions, and the state's income from gas exploitation will also help build a financial reserve for future generations. In order to achieve our goal and introduce a low-carbon economy in Poland while avoiding a sharp increase in energy prices, it is necessary to intelligently transform the energy sector. We must increase its efficiency, invest in new technologies and develop renewable energy. Such investments will support the development of science and create new jobs. What we have accomplished • We are building a gas port in Swinoujscie. Thanks to this The investment will enable liquefied natural gas (LNG) to be delivered to Poland by sea. Initially, the terminal's annual capacity will be 5 billion cubic meters, which is about 1/3 of the annual gas demand. The construction plan was prepared in 2008, and in 2009 a law was passed enabling the smooth start of construction. All construction permits and environmental decisions have already been issued. Construction began in September 2010 and will be completed in 2014. To ensure the effective operation of the gas port, as early as June www.platforma.org 2009, the government signed an agreement with Qatar to supply liquefied natural gas. The agreement, which provides for the supply of 1.5 billion m³ of LNG per year, will run from 2014 to 2034. Visualization of the LNG terminal in Swinoujscie • We have prepared the legal basis for the development of nuclear policy, so there are no longer any legislative obstacles to the construction of a nuclear power plant in Poland. Full implementation of the nuclear policy program in Poland will raise the level of our energy security through diversification of energy sources. • We have granted more than twenty licenses for geological surveys in Poland to test the potential for shale gas production. We will amend the geological law so family and securitywww.platforma.org to provide the state with a high annuity from these deposits, which we will use in part to strengthen the demographic reserve and pension security. • We are expanding the capacity of gas storage facilities, including those in Wierzchowice, Mogilno, Husowo, Kosakowo. In 2009, the storage facility in Daszewo was put into operation, and in 2010 the construction of the tank in Bonikowo was completed. In 2011, a warehouse in Strachocin was put into operation. • We are expanding natural gas transmission networks. A new Wloclawek-Gdynia gas pipeline has been built, and we have provided money for the construction of the Jele-niów-Dziwiszów network. Design work on more gas pipelines is underway. • We are also making other investments in energy infra-structure, including the Lubia-tów-Międzychód-Grotów natural gas and oil mine and a new power unit in Belchatow, which is under construction. • We are building a new gas connection with the Czech Republic near Cieszyn and expanding the existing interconnector with Germany in Lasów. Thanks to these investments, we will connect the north of Poland, where the gas port will be put into operation, with the south of the country and Western Europe. family and securitywww.platforma.org • We have negotiated a long-term gas supply agreement with Russia. Poland has secured 10 billion cubic meters of gas per year, which, together with gas from other sources, is more than enough to keep Polish businesses running and to maintain a steady supply to our homes. • With the approval and support of the European Union, we introduced a Polish operator into our section of the Yamal pipeline. At the same time, we have taken steps in the European Union t o create alternative European channels for energy transmission. • In order to transform our economy into a low-carbon one, we have initiated a clean coal technology program. Thanks to its implementation, it will be possible to significantly reduce current CO2 emi- sion. • We are carrying out an ambitious program of energy retrofitting of buildings to make them low-energy. What we will do • We will complete the construction of the gas port in Swinoujscie, we will continue the energy program family and securityNuclear and expansion of gas storage and transmission networks. By 2015, the total gas storage capacity will increase from the current 1.66 billion m³ to more than 3 billion m³, and the length of gas pipelines will increase by 1,000 km. • We will appoint a government coordinator for shale gas, whose task will be to bring about commercial ex- ploration of deposits in Poland as soon as possible. We will adopt a mechanism for transferring state revenues from shale gas production to the security of future pensions. • We will reform the energy sector in three ways. First, increasing efficiency. Second, diversifying the sources and transmission of energy and fuels. Third, developing energy-saving and low-carbon technologies. • In addition to building a gas connection with the Czech Republic near Cieszyn and Germany at Lasow, we will modernize the connection with Slovakia and build new connections with Lithuania. By 2015, we will double our import capacity and ex- port triple it. • Betting on the development of innovative energy, the development of gas and nuclear power plants, we will at the same time take care of the state of the environment www.platforma.org natural and filling adopted European Union's climate commitments. • We will seek analogous funding for renewable energy sources in the 2014-2020 EU financial perspective. We want to support distributed energy: small wind sources, photovoltaics, heat pumps, energy storage devices, including electric cars. • We will continue researching the possibility of underground coal gasification and so-called CO2 capture and storage. Strategic security and defense POLICY DEFENSE Ensuring the country's security is the most important task of those in power. As a full-fledged member of the strongest military alliance in history -NATO -Poland must take into account various threats in its defense policy. Hence the need to adapt our army to the new reality, to increase its efficiency, which the government family and securityIt is effectively implementing through a program of professionalizing it and equipping it with modern equipment. What we have accomplished • We abolished conscription. In place of the obobinded to perform basic military service and military training, we have introduced voluntary contractual professional military service, as well as the possibility for women to serve. Thanks to this decision, forced mobilization into the army has already been avoided by more than 105,000 young people. • We have built a 100,000-strong professional army and established a National Reserve Force to support the professional military. • We have completed the Armed Forces professionalization program in two years. Today's defense requirements call for professional and well-trained soldiers, forces that are more mobile, disposable, and prepared to act quickly. The ratio of operational troops, or such, to security forces has changed from 53% to 47% to 56% to 44%, and continues to rise. www.platforma.org • We have begun a thorough modernization of the army's equipment. In 2010 alone, more than PLN 4 billion was allocated for the purchase of equipment and armaments for soldiers. Outlays for what is permanent in the army, property expenditures, were increased by 20%. Thanks to this, Poland does not deviate from its allies in terms of the level of equipment, and, more importantly, also ensures an increasingly higher level of security for its soldiers, on missions such as the one in Afghanistan. • Spending on national defense in 2011 will amount to 27.5 billion zlotys -the most in our hi-story. This is important because it shows, on the one hand, care for Poland's security and, on the other, the provision of good conditions for soldiers. • The increase in the defense budget was accompanied by a wide-ranging review of the structure and efficiency of spending, so that funds are reallocated to where they are actually needed. • We have started the process of de-bureaucratizing Army, in which unnecessary administrative levels are being eliminated. This process will bring not only savings, but also greater transparency and efficiency. family and security• As part of the reform of the Polish army, we have introduced new solutions for the accommodation of soldiers. Each soldier has a choice: either he will live in a garrison or in a rented apartment. If he chooses the second option, he receives a housing benefit. The government has also introduced new solutions for assistance to professional soldiers wounded in the line of duty (who have retired to civilian life due to health reasons), including in the form of aid payments. • We have extended the possible training period of a professional soldier from 1.5 years to 3 years. What we will do • We will rebuild the military command system to improve its functionality. • We will improve the functioning of informatic systems at all levels of command and their support. • Continuing to rationalize employment in the national defense ministry, we will stabilize the personnel situation of soldiers and civilian employees. • We will extend the military activity of soldiers. www.platforma.org • At the end of 2011, we will have reached a ratio of 60% operational units to 40% za-secure units, which means more troops for immediate use. • We will facilitate opportunities for the professional private corps to advance and prepare for employment after military service. The military should not produce new unemployed, but effectively utilize its potential. • We will maintain at a level of more than 25% the share of property expenditures, i.e. going for the mo-dernization of the army, in the budget of the Ministry of Defense, guaranteeing the army a steady supply of modern equipment. OUR ALLIES Having achieved its most important strategic goals of full membership in NATO and the European Union after 1989, Poland must now work to build its strong position within these two organizations. Fulfilling its Allied obligations through participation in international peacekeeping missions, influencing NATO's new strategic concept adopted this year, and working to develop defense structures within the EU family and securityEuropean are activities that fit very well into this strategy. What we have accomplished • In 2008, we smoothly completed our participation in the Iraq mission. • We have made changes to the structure of the mission in Afga-nistan, concentrating Polish forces in one pro- vention and equipping them with much-needed equipment that they previously lacked. Polish soldiers are not only conducting combat operations. They are also training the Afghan police and military so that they can take over responsibility for security in their own country. • The mission in Afghanistan is coming to an end in connection with the implementation of accepted allied commitments. Polish servicemen and officers are also present on a much smaller scale in other peacekeeping missions in Europe and around the world, where they train local security forces to take over responsibility for areas previously engulfed in conflict. • We took an active part in the development of the new NATO Strategic Concept. The work mainly concerned contingency plans, www.platforma.org that is, those that outline scenarios of reinforcement for Poland if it were to become a target of attack, but also, among other things, the missile shield, relations with Russia, further expansion of NATO and energy security. • We are also committed to the further development of European Union defense policy, in which we see very important support for NATO, and in further strengthening the partnership between the two organizations. In these activities, we supported the newly established EU diplomatic service and the High Representative for Foreign and Defense Policy. What we will do • We will prepare a so-called road map for the completion of the Polish mission in Afghanistan. We will implement it in accordance with our national interest and in consultation with the allies and the Afghan government, so as to safely hand over the province controlled by the Polish Army to the local authorities. • Within the European Union, we will s u p p o r t t h e High Representative in his efforts to develop the EU's Common Security and Defense Policy. We particularly want to family and securityput the onus on implementing the initiative of Poland and its Weimar Triangle part-ners to raise the EU's crisis reso-lution capacity. • We will continue to promote Polish military and civilian employees as candidates for positions serving the interests of Poland -in both organizations. Foreign policy With EU accession, but also thanks to globalization, the boundaries between foreign and domestic policy are slowly blurring. It is at the EU forum that decisions are made on 2/3 of our legislation. Foreign policy, therefore, necessarily relates to the totality of our po-litical activity, and must therefore derive from domestic interests and be fully rooted in the economic interests of the state. All external activities of the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk are aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth and prosperity, ensuring the security of the state and its citizens, increasing the country's chances for modernization and strengthening its international position. www.platforma.org Most of our activity in the field of foreign policy is carried out through the European Union. Our raison d'etat can only be effectively realized by skillfully inscribing our interests in the broader European interest. The European Union is a system of permanent negotiations in which the strength of arguments counts. It is not enough to be right, we still have to convince our partners. Both in the broader international environment and in the European Union, Civic Platform knows how to build effective coalitions, how to negotiate and how to convince partners of our rationale. In today's world, it is not enough to define our raison d'etat, we need to know how to implement it effectively. Our partners in the world, in the EU or in bilateral relations rightly expect us to be guided in our actions first and foremost by the interests of our citizens. However, predictability is expected from a serious partner. In its actions, the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk demonstrates maturity and pragmatism. Our motto has become the statement: "We pursue our interests, but we are not self-interested." What we have accomplished • Symbolic confirmation of of the growing Poland's role is the holding by our compatriots of the family and securitykey positions in the EU structures: Jerzy Buzek chairs the European Parliament, Janusz Lewandowski is in charge of the 2014-2020 budget. • The government's flagship venture was the Eastern Part-nerhood. The undeniable Polish raison d'état, shared by all Polish political forces, is the rapprochement and progressive and gradual integration of the neighboring countries (countries of Eastern Europe and the South Caucasus) into the European Union. We were the first to take effective action in this regard at the EU forum, rightly assuming that this initiative can only succeed with the support of our other partners. Symbolic gestures in this deliquefied matter are not enough, we need to have an idea of how to conduct an effective policy. • We have prepared Poland for its six-month Presidency of the EU Council. In the program of the Polish presidency, we proposed concrete solutions to the Union. We focused largely on economic issues. • Under the Presidency, we prepared, among other things, a new EU law regulating on-line transactions (the so-called 28th Regime European Contract Law). We also supported the European Commission's efforts to eliminate unnecessary market barriers. Our government www.platforma.org also managed to family and securitywork out the first-ever EU-wide ne-gional mandate for gas talks with Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. • We believe that the answer to today's economic crisis and uncertain interna- tional environment is "not less, but more Europe," which is w h y we support the strengthening of EU Community institutions, as well as closer coordination of economic policies carried out by individual member states, and the completion of the single market. Under the Presidency, we are preparing EU regulations and directives that strengthen economic governance in the Union, with the aim of permanently safeguarding Europe against further crises (the so-called "Six Pack"). • In the European Union, key decisions are made by member states. However, only those who use all available instruments to promote their cause are effective. We take all EU decision-making bodies seriously. In the European Parliament, which is slowly becoming an equal partner in the decision-making process, we work within the largest and most influential Christian Democrat political family. We have developed good contacts with the European Commission, strengthened the www.platforma.org also our presence in the nascent EU diplomacy. Our diplomat Maciej Popowski is one of the four most senior officials managing the European External Action Service. Thanks to the actions of our government, in the international system Poland is seen as an author of solutions, a country that does not wait for the position of others, but provides much-needed initiatives. • Understanding that solidarity is the most important pillar of the European Union, as part of its bilateralassistance in th e wake of the financial crisis, Poland provided loans to Iceland, Latvia and Moldova. • We have significantly improved relations with our most important neighbor and the most important actor in the life of the European Union -Germany. We are working together to democratize our neighborhood in Ukraine and Belarus. We have achieved better conditions for the Polish community in Germany. • Together with Germany and France, we have reactivated the Weimar Triangle at the level of heads of state and government, where we discuss, among other things, t h e Union's relations with Russia, neighborhood policy, as well as defense cooperation. family and security• We have good relations with other important foreign policy partners, such as France -one of the main foreign investors in Poland and a partner in many political and economic projects and the United Kingdom, with whom we have similar views on, among other things, the functioning of the EU internal market, deregulation, and on transatlantic relations. We work with Italy and the Holy See to protect the rights of Christians in the world. With Spain, we have similar views on the future of cohesion policy. With Sweden, we have prepared the Eastern Partnership initiative. • We have developed the best relations ever with the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary. On key issues, we try to coordinate our position in the European Union. The functioning of the Visegrad Group is a clear signal to the Eastern Partnership countries that regional cooperation can lead to EU membership. • Experience has taught us, however, that neither in international politics nor in the EU is there such a thing as permanent coalitions. They change depending on the pro-blems under discussion. We have set our sights on building lasting relationships and understanding with all our www.platforma.org partners -geographically near and far, large and small, rich and poor. We are nurturing the structures of cooperation that already exist, such as the aforementioned Visegrad cooperation or the Weimar Triangle, but we are also creating and strengthening new ties whether formal or informal -as our government has proven, for example, with the establishment of the Eastern Partnership, the negotiations on the climate package, Strategy 2020 or now during the preliminary negotiations on the EU budget for 2014-2020. • In addition to our Eastern Partnership activities, we are also developing bilateral contacts with our most important partners in the East. We have created a Polish-Ukrainian Partnership Forum. We have implemented an agreement on local border traffic. Last year, we granted almost as many visas in Ukraine as all the other Schengen countries combined. • With regard to Belarus, we pursue a policy based on the principle of conditionality. The fate of the Belarusian people is particularly dear to us. We are ready to help Belarus if it follows the path of demo-cratic transformation. In the current conditions, we focus on supporting the nascent civil society there. We are reacting family and securityin a firm manner when Belarus turns back from this path, violating elementary human rights in the process. • There have been improvements in relations with Russia, not least because of Poland's strong position in the European Union. We have negotiated an agreement on local border traffic, creating the possibility for the Königsberg region to open up to Europe. Navigation through the Pilawa Strait is possible. • The antidote to the fear of Russia is a modern and strong Poland, with reliable allies, a strong position in the European Union and excellent relations with its other neighbors in the East. A constructive approach to Russia strengthens our position in Eu-rope. It is in our interest to dialogue with Russia on economic matters primarily through the Union. The stronger we are in the Union and the more influence we have on joint actions, the more the Russians will have to reckon with us. Russia should be treated with respect, but it should be enforced with i r o n -c l a d consistency to fulfill all its international obligations, whether they concern respect for human rights, disarmament agreements or energy policy. www.platforma.org • Our actions have increased the knowledge of ordinary citizens in Russia about the crimes committed by the Stalinist regime, as evidenced by the adoption of the Katyn resolution in the Russian Duma. While maintaining differences in interests and assessments, despite the difficulties associated with the Smolensk investigation, the balance of the last three years of Polish-Russian relations is positive. • In relations with the US, we strive to present a policy based on reciprocity. Within its framework, we have negotiated good agreements on the deployment of elements of the missile defense system and on the status of US troops in Poland, while maintaining the primacy of Polish jurisdiction. • Polish-American relations should be based not only on matters of security policy, but also on a greater American investment, technological and intellectual presence in Poland. This is particularly important in the context of shale gas exploration, as it is the Americans who have the relevant technology. • We also developed favorable relations for Poland with the world's emerging economic and political powers: China, India, Brazil, but also with Israel or the countries of the family and securityLatin America. The goal of this policy is economic and cultural exchange. • Over the past term, we have successfully sought to make new markets more accessible to Polish entrepreneurs than before: in China, Israel, Qatar, Azerbaijan, India, Vietnam or Turkey. • In order to strengthen relations with our diaspora, we worked closely with post-London organizations. For the first time, we issued a "Report on the situation of Polonia and Poles abroad." This is the first such comprehensive presentation of this issue. Currently, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has begun to develop an "Atlas of the presence of Polonia and Poles abroad." What we will do • The priority task is to negotiate an ambitious European Union budget for 2014-2020, which will allow us to meet the growing political and treaty ambitions of the Community, and give Poland a chance to narrow the gap with its rich neighbors. We will ensure equal treatment of all farmers under the Common Agricultural Policy. We still have a lot of catching up to do. Therefore, despite the crisis, we are committed to www.platforma.org To negotiate support at a level higher than 300 billion zlotys. • We are convinced that Poland will continue to play a key role in shaping the new face of the European Union. We have entered the group of countries that influence the final shape of decisions taken in the EU, and we will effectively consolidate this position. This is particularly important because the next four years will be crucial for the development of the Community. Once the Lisbon Treaty is fully implemented, the institutional shape of the Union will be finally established, the framework of common economic governance will be built, the shape of the new budget until 2020 will be decided, and the construction of the single market will come to fruition. In order to take an active part in shaping each of these processes, we need a coherent vision of the future of integration, effective advocacy for the realization of our interests in all EU institutions, but above all competence. • We will gradually bring about the full opening of a market of 500 million consumers to Polish entrepreneurs. We are particularly keen on completing the single market in the area of freedom to provide services, as well as expanding the single market into new areas, such as trade family and securityOn the Internet. We will be one of the main countries that will define the new rules for managing the European economy. We will ensure that this governance reconciles innovation and a barrier-free market with solidarity and sustainable development of the Union's individual regions. • We will advocate for the expansion of the Union first of all by the countries of the Balkan Peninsula, and in the longer term by other European countries that meet all the necessary accession requirements. It is during the Polish presidency of the EU Council that the process of Croatia's accession to the Union will be finalized. • Poland will remain a leader in promoting and implementing the Eastern Partnership program, which brings countries aspiring to become countries with democratic standards closer to the European Union. Therefore, we will continue to support the European ambitions of neighboring countries such as Ukraine, Moldova and the countries of the South Caucasus. • Our goal will remain to promote democratic values through demo-cratic methods. Poland, to the best of its ability, within the framework of European solidarity, will remain active in the field of mechanisms of www.platforma.org stabilization: financial and military. One of the most pressing challenges is the epochal transformation in the Arab world. Poland has a lot of experience in the field of political transformation, so we will share it with all others who wish to do so. Family Active policies for the family -children, young people, married couples, seniors -are an investment in the future and part of an advanced national community. Actions in this area must be extremely comprehensive and complementary, so that while supporting, for example, young people in the trans-feration of education-labor market, the experience and competence of the older generation is not lost to the labor market. The principle of intergenerational solidarity is the foundation of any highly developed society. Wise family policy must therefore be a policy of solidarity between generations. It must be aimed at eliminating deficits, supporting people in crisis, improving the demographic situation, but its priority must also be employment growth. family and securityWhat we have accomplished • For four years, we have pursued active pro-family policies. First, we extended maternity leave and introduced paternity leave (commonly known as paternity leave), which fathers are entitled to after the child's birth. Length of maternity leave for the first child at the end of the SLD-UP, Law and Justice and PO-PSL governments (in weeks). 20+2 18 16 2005 2007 2011 Source: MZ • We have increased the availability of places in nurseries and kindergartens. It has become easier to establish nurseries. They are no longer treated as health care institutions. Thanks to the so-called "Crèche Law," children's clubs can also be established. By virtue of the same act, municipalities can announce competitions for a so-called day-care provider. After training, it can become, for example, a mother who has a small child herself and can take care of the children. www.platforma.org from the neighborhood either in their home or in premises made available by the municipality. • Starting in October 2011, it will be easier to hire a nanny. It will be enough for parents to sign an activation contract with the nanny and report her to the Social Security Administration. The state will contribute to the nannies' salaries by paying social and health insurance premiums calculated on the minimum salary. • We have passed legislation that is more effective than before in protecting our children from violence and sexual abuse. Among other things, the new law includes a ban on corporal punishment, the ability to immediately remove a child from a home at risk of violence, free ob- ducation with a general practitioner without a prosecutor's request, an order for the perpetrator to leave the home, whether he or she owns it or not, more effective prosecution and punishment of pedophiles, and their chemical castration. • We have allocated an additional 50 million zlotys for feeding children in schools. At the same time, the procedures for granting the right t o nutrition have been made more flexible, and the school director can make the decision to grant a child a free meal himself. family and security• We have introduced a law on family support and the foster care system. The goal to be achieved by this law is to create a coherent system of care for children and families if they have difficulties in fulfilling their functions. Assistance will be directed mainly to families affected by violence, poor and at risk of poverty. The law stipulates that family forms of foster care should occupy a special place among the institutions exercising foster care over a child. These include related foster families, unrelated foster families (non-related, professional) and family foster homes. • As part of the revision of family benefits, the government increased the amount of family allowances by more than 40%, as well as by about 24% the amount of the nursing benefit granted to family caregivers of disabled persons requiring special care. In addition, the government has adopted a draft amendment to the Law on Family Benefits, removing the requirement of an income criterion for the award of nursing benefits to caregivers of people with disabilities, as well as retirement, disability and health insurance premiums paid for them from the state budget. • We launched the 50+ program, designed to increase the chances of people over 50 to www.platforma.org labor market by lowering for employers the cost of employing such people, introducing modern methods of training and improving the skills of people 50+. • We have prepared a report on youth along with with recommendations for state policy toward young people in the next few years. What we will do • Fewer and fewer children are being born in Poland, which results in an aging population and limits the country's development opportunities. That's why we will support fertility by dramatically increasing the family allowance for third and subsequent children from 2014, when we will no longer be subject to the excessive deficit procedure. • We will change the rules for financing the costs of birthing school, childbirth, especially for women who are pregnant for the first time. Similarly, the state will help cover the cost of perinatal anesthesia or family childbirth. • We will continue to create places for children in nurseries and kindergartens (more on this in the section on education). family and security• Many public kindergartens still lack places for children. This means that parents have to look for a much more expensive alternative in the form of private kindergartens. The amount of subsidy per child will be the same in public and nonpublic kindergartens. • For many parents, kindergarten opening hours are difficult to reconcile with work. The holiday break is also very problematic. Therefore, we will introduce a legal provision that will oblige kindergartens to operate from 6 am to 6 pm, twelve months a year. • A kindergarten facility will be established at each major university. Students who become parents in the course of their studies or young researchers employed at the university will be given the opportunity to use such a facility. • We will work with community organizations to campaign against obesity and promote healthy eating. • We want to implement programs to activate reserves in the labor market to increase employment levels and reduce unemployment by connecting people with disabilities to the open labor market, enabling earlier www.platforma.org the start of young people on the labor market, raising the labor force participation of women aged25-50. • We will propose the introduction of renewable seasonal contracts for employees in the Labor Code. During the term of the contract, the employee would be entitled to remuneration, but would not receive remuneration in the event of non-performance of work for reasons attributable to the employer. Such a solution would relieve employers from incurring high employment costs, while providing employees with the prospect of stable employment. • We propose to determine the maximum number of unpaid internships held with the same employer by people referred from labor offices. We want the second internship to be paid. If the employer does not meet this requirement, the labor office will not refer further interns to him. In this way, we want to eliminate the phenomenon of "perpetual internships," after which even the best trainees have no chance of permanent or temporary employment. • For the development of the country and the labor market, we must continue to pursue an active policy toward seniors. We will increase senior citizens' access to education family and securityand we will encourage them to pursue lifelong learning. We will systematically raise the level of their professional and social activity. • During the term of office, we will dramatically increase the outlays for activating seniors. In 2012 they will increase from about 10 million zlotys to 60 million zlotys, in 2013 to 85 million zlotys, and in 2014 to 110 million zlotys. Together with local governments, we will support the establishment of Universities of t h e Third Age. We will plug the existing infrastructure into this plan -community centers and bi- binaries, and in the future Świetliki. • A pilot program covering five provinces, "Seniors' Thursday," will be launched in 2012. For one day a month, senior citizens will have access to public cultural institutions for "symbolic zloty". The program will be reali-zed with the participation of Polish artists including those of the younger generation. • We will guarantee pension security, also using state revenues from shale gas to inject into pension funds. • We will reform the support system for people unable to live independently. We will provide effective assistance to families wishing to care for their dependent loved ones. www.platforma.org • The priority of our activities will be direct assistance to people with disabilities. We are leading to an increase in funds from the National Fund for Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons (PFRON) for the removal of architectural barriers and investments to facilitate the functioning of p e o p l e with visual and hearing impairments. The standard in this regard will be the targeted implementation of all socially and financially justified applications. • We will increase the scope of in-kind assistance to people with disabilities. Our goal here will be primarily to increase access to effective rehabilitation and services that allow, for example, the acquisition of skills necessary to support the rehabilitation process of a disabled person by family members. Some of the newly awarded cash benefits will be directed directly to in-kind support aimed at regaining the ability to work and returning to employment as soon as possible. Health Health care is one of the most sensitive areas of social life. The security of citizens and the assessment of the effectiveness of public authority largely depend on it. In recent years, many family and securityhas changed in the health service for the better, and in the new term we will introduce innovative solutions that will allow the Polish health service to make a real leap forward in civilization. We will continue to improve the quality of health care, as well as modernize the emergency and diagnostic infrastructure, while taking care of the efficient use of public funds. The key to further improving the quality of medical services and raising the standard of health care to a level comparable to that of the most developed countries is to give Poles a choice as to whom they will pay their health care premiums and on what terms. What we have accomplished • Between 2007 and 2011, we increased expenditures NHF for treatment from 41.5 to 58 billion zlotys. Spending on health care At the end of the SLD-UP, Law and Justice and PO-PSL governments (in billion zlotys) 58 41.5 33 2005 2007 2011 Source: MZ www.platforma.org • We increased outlays on hospital treatment from PLN 18.5 billion in 2007 to PLN 27 billion in 2011. We are planning a further increase in outlays for hospital treatment in 2012 (to a level of about PLN 29 billion) and in the following years. Unfortunately, the bony organiza-tional structure, the lack of clearly defined and enforceable management and control competencies under which independent public health care institutions operated, did not provide a guarantee of improved quality and increased patient satisfaction. Therefore, at the beginning of 2009, we prepared a plan for the debt relief of hospitals on the condition that they be converted into commercial companies. In 2009-2011, 38 hospitals benefited from this form of support. By August 30, 2011, we had already allocated an amount of about 300 million zlotys to support this proce-dure. • In 2009, we changed the system introduced by the Law and Justice party, which was unfavorable to less wealthy provinces, to distribute funds from the National Health Fund. As a result, the disparity in treatment expenditures per insured person between provinces fell from nearly 500 to 200 zlotys. family and securityAverage waiting times for pediatric cardiology outpatient clinics 80 51 June 2007June 2011 Average value of average expected waiting time* (in days) *This is a weighted average, where each recipient's reported average expected waiting time was assigned a weight in terms of the number of people waiting. Source: MZ Average waiting times for pediatric trauma and orthopedic surgery clinics 85 26 June 2007June 2011 Average value of average expected waiting time* (in days) *This is a weighted average, where each recipient's reported average expected waiting time was assigned a weight in terms of the number of people waiting. Source: MZ www.platforma.org • We have shortened queues; for example, the average waiting time-. waiting time for pulmonology departments in June 2007 was 209 days, and in June 2011 -19 days. The average waiting time for metabolic disease outpatient clinics in June 2007 was 74 days, and in June 2011 -25 days. The average waiting time for gastrology outpatient clinics in June 2007 was 180 days, and in June 2011 -54 days. The average waiting time for hematology outpatient clinics in June 2007 was 99 days, and in June 2011 -64 days. • The law on curative activity (in force since July 2011) will permanently change the image of the health care sys- t e m in Poland. We are moving away from rigidly defining medical activity by a formal-legal organizational structure to a functional approach. To support the transformation of hospitals, the law provides for PLN 1.7 billion for 2011-2013. • Most developed countries use a modern system of accounting for medical services -the so-called Uniform Groups of Patients (JGP). In Poland, we introduced the JGP system after just six months of government -from July 2008. • We have radically strengthened the ambulance service. We have increased funding for teams family and securityoutbound ambulances from PLN 1.01 billion in 2006 to PLN 1.73 billion in 2008. Over the past three years, 346 modern ambulances, funded by the European Union, have been delivered to ambulance services. The Polish Air Ambulance Service has replaced several decades-old worn-out Mi-2 helicopters with 23 ultramodern EC-135 rescue helicopters. Thanks to the new helicopters and ambulances, waiting times for paramedics have been reduced. Today, the Air Rescue has the most modern equipment in Europe. • For four years, we have consistently aimed to reduce patient co-payments for re-funded drugs. Overall, we managed to reduce the level of co-payments from 35.41% in 2007 to 32.26% in 2010. Every year we expanded the list of reimbursed drugs with new items. We have added more than twenty diseases to the list of chronic diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bipolar affective disorder, endo-metriosis, ADHD, prostatic hyperplasia, ulcerative colitis), which has resulted in a significant reduction in the cost of related medications. • We have placed special emphasis on oncological treatment. In addition to oncology programs www.platforma.org We have changed the rules for the use of chemotherapy, which allow treatment with the most modern preparations, so that it is the doctor who can decide on the selection of substances from the available catalog, and each case can be treated individually. Expenses on chemotherapy have increased sixfold, from about 200 million zlotys in 2006 to over 1.2 billion zlotys in 2010. • We recognized the problem of patients' access to the most modern, and therefore most expensive, drug technologies. We developed special therapeutic programs for rare diseases. All programs have been evaluated by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technolo- gies in terms of their effectiveness and introduced for implementation. In 2010, we allocated PLN 1.4 billion for the implementation of these programs. We introduced systemic solutions for the treatment of diabetes in children with the use of an insulin pump. In 2009, we began funding insulin pumps for adolescents up to the age of 18. We implemented bleeding prevention for children with hemophilia A and B. • We have introduced transparency in decision-making processes in drug policy by statutorily separating the competencies of the drug registration process (decision of the President of the Office for Registration of Medicines) from reimbursement decisions (Minister of Health at the family and securitywww.platforma.org Based on the recommendations provided by the Agency for Health Technology Assessment). • In 2009, we introduced the Law on Patient's Rights and Patient Ombudsman. It was the first time that patients' rights were included in a single act, and an Ombudsman for Patients' Rights, independent of the Ministry of Health, the National Health Fund and health care providers, was appointed to guard them. • We assured that the decision on which health care service is a guaranteed benefit will not be a discretionary decision, but will be preceded by a full analysis of clinical effectiveness by the Agency for Health Technology Assessment. Thanks to the enactment of the "Basket Law," patients have the opportunity to obtain information on the contents of the basket of guaranteed benefits. • We have reformed the system of education in medical faculties so that medical studies give graduates more practical knowledge. The abolition of post-graduate internship and the state medical exam will allow doctors to start practicing faster. We have eliminated the paradox that a young doctor began his career with three months of unemployment. More doctors means further shortening of queues. family and security• We have increased the number of places allowing people to begin medical specialization. We have introduced a modular specialization system that shortens the training cycle without compromising its quality. • We are developing specializations that are currently in short supply, offering higher salaries for specializing physicians. We allocate about 700 million zlotys a year from the state budget for specialty training. In a short period of time, we have brought the number of medical graduates in line with the number of specialization places. • Nearly 30,000 nurses have raised their qualifications in bridging studies. This educational path will be maintained. European funds will also help increase the number of students in nursing and midwifery. This means in the future more nurses and midwives to care for the sick and better nursing care for children in schools. • We did not succumb to the global panic and pressure from far-maceutical companies and did not purchase expensive vaccines, of questionable efficacy, for the so-called swine flu. www.platforma.org • We declared war on the manufacturers and sellers of legal highs, which threatened the health of our children. What we will do • Starting in 2013, we will give Poles the right to choose to whom they will donate their premiums, introducing the possibility of creating health funds that are competitive with the National Health Fund, contracting medical services for their patients. Such an innovative step is made possible by the fact that we are already introducing competitive rules for the operation of health care institutions and hospitals. Competing for the premiums of Poles will create an incentive for the National Health Fund and other public and private funds to seek providers of the highest quality services, guaranteeing short deadlines and genuine care for the patient. Health care systems based on payer con-struction are considered the most innovative and effective. The system we plan to introduce will be based on universality of access to health care and will include mechanisms to prevent any dis-crimination of patients based on age, gender or wallet status. family and security• In 2012, the funds allocated for treatment will increase by another 3.5 billion zlotys, to 61.5 billion zlotys. • In just a few months (January 2012), the patient will have the right to pursue claims for the adverse effects of medical actions with out the tedious and lengthy court route. The time to pursue claims should shorten from more than 4 years to 10 months. • In 2014, we will complete the full information of health care. We will introduce accounting in hospitals. Thanks to the IT projects currently under way and the Health Care Information System Act we have passed, patients will soon be able to use electronic prescriptions, register at any clinic via the Internet, or access their medical data via an Internet patient account based on an electronic patient card. The information system will also provide more effective treatment methods (eguides for doctors, reliance on past medical history), reduce administrative burden and lead to a reduction in fraud. www.platforma.org • We will continue to reduce pa-patients' drug subsidies. As early as 2012, patients will pay less than 30% of the price of a reimbursable drug. • We will pass a comprehensive law regulating clinical trials. The lists of conducted trials will be public, and the qualification of patients who want to participate in them will be done on clear principles. We will ensure full transparency and safety of clinical trials in Poland. • We will extend the reimbursement of infusion sets until the age of 26, which will enable young people over 18 to use an insulin pump. Thus, studying young people will not have to worry about the high cost of insulin pump treatment for diabetes. • We will lead to the recognition by the countries of the Union European qualification of Polish nurses without the need for additional studies. Sports Sport is of great social, educational and economic importance. It not only teaches positive values or civic participation, but is family and securityan important social policy tool and has a significant impact on improving the quality of life, and through the promotion of physical activity plays an important pro-health role and contributes to social integration. The development of sports infrastructure is part of the public space where the activity of the local community is concentrated and local business develops. Therefore, the priority of our activities is to support the development of sports by creating infrastructural and financial conditions for its practice that are beneficial to citizens. What we have accomplished • The years 2007-2011 were a time of significant changes in Polish sports. We are implementing two major infrastructure and organizational projects, "Moje Boisko -Orlik 2012" and UEFA EURO 2012. • More than 1,800 Orliki pitches have been built as part of the "Moje Boisko -Orlik 2012" program, and another 490 are under construction. When they are completed by the end of 2011, the number of these facilities will be close to 2,300, which means that we are getting closer to equaling the number of pitches with the number of municipalities in Poland. More than 1.8 million people use the www.platforma.org Eagles each month. In 2010, the program was expanded family and securityo the White Eagles project, thanks to which 38 ice rinks were built. • The Physical Culture Development Fund in 20072010 subsidized the construction of some 1,800 sports facilities, both of strategic importance to Polish sports, such as the infrastructure of the Central Sports Center, but also hundreds of playing fields, swimming pools, sports halls and gymnasiums for local communities. PGE Arena Gdansk Stadium • In addition to construction of stadiums,on which UEFA EURO 2012 tournament matches will be played www.platforma.org (Warsaw, Gdansk, Wroclaw, Poznan), and the state is also supporting the construction of stadiums in Krakow and Chorzow. • The construction and acceptance processes for the stadiums in Poznan and Gdansk have been completed. The stadiums in Wroclaw and Warsaw are in the final stages of construction. All stadiums where the Tournament matches will be played will be commissioned in 2011. • All of the residence centers housing the teams taking part in the tournament are already ready to receive UEFA EURO 2012 participants. • 83 investments that are crucial and important for UEFA EURO 2012 are today 80% under construction or have been completed, with a total value of PLN 96 billion. • An important priority of the government, also in the context of the organization of the UEFA EURO 2012 tournament, is to ensure security at our stadiums. The modern legal solutions introduced in 2009 and amended this year in the Law on Security of Mass Events make it possible to effectively combat hooliganism and violence at stadiums. family and security• Since 2008, the implementation of an innovative system of financing the preparation of the best Polish athletes for major international events, based on the principles of project management, has begun. The basic premise of the new system is the efficient disbursement of public funds through direct financing of the preparation of athletes most likely to achieve sporting success. To this end, an innovative "Poland Club" project was launched, bringing together the best Polish athletes. • The competitive sports of athletes with disabilities, especially their preparations for the Paralympic Games, are covered by the same rules as those for Olympic athletes. • For the past four years, state funding for the development of children's and youth sports has been steadily increasing. Thanks to these measures, the number (from about 23,000 to 29,000) of young, athletically gifted athletes whose training is subsidized by public funds increased significantly between 2008 and 2011. • Significant deregulation has been introduced in Polish sports, by limiting state interference in matters that can be regulated www.platforma.org regulations enacted by sports organizations (the new Law on Sports). • Provisions criminalizing doping were introduced in the Sports Law, and penalties for sports corruption were tightened. In addition, funding was provided to maintain accreditation by the World Anti-Doping Organization (WADA) for the Polish anti-doping laboratory, one of the few with such status in our part of Europe. • Between 2007 and 2010, the expenditures of local governments on sports almost tripled (from about PLN 2.3 billion to about PLN 6.5 billion). Also, funds from the state budget earmarked for sports increased significantly in this period (from about PLN 0.7 billion to about PLN 2.3 billion). family and securityTABLE 2. Public spending (state budget + local government budgets) on sports in 2001-2010 in million zlotys. 9 000 8 000 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Public Expenditures Expenditures of JST Source: MSiT Number of sports facilities, new or renovated, subsidized with state funds between 2001 and 2011. 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (plan) Source: MSiT www.platforma.org What we will do • We will implement the "ORLIK+" program, which is the "successor" to the "Moje Boisko -Orlik 2012" program. The purpose of the program will be to build sports facilities including both fields for team games and facilities for other sports, such as ice rinks and athletic running tracks. • We will conduct "Sports Club" program, which will aim to implement new legal instructions and financial support from public authorities for the creation of new sports clubs. Due to the still low number of sports clubs in relation to the total population of Poland, the creation of new clubs is a prerequisite for the development of sports in our country. • We will develop and implement the "Sports Volunteer" program, the purpose of which will be to carry out activities, including, among others, social campaigns and subsidize the projects of non-governmental organizations, aimed at activating and supporting people of different age and social groups doing volunteer work in the field of activities of sports entities and organization of events. family and security• We will use the UEFA EURO 2012 Finals Tournament to reinforce Poland's image abroad as a modern and creative country with a relatively young and well-educated population. a free citizen and an efficient state3. Free citizen and efficient state a) An efficient state • administration of justice • efficient administration • taxes and other charges b) Regional development c) Infrastructure www.platforma.org 128 a free citizen and an efficient stateOne of the pillars of smart development, based on creativity and cooperation, must be a friendly state and efficient administration. An efficient judiciary, servant offices, reduction of bureaucracy and deregulation are the conditions for Poland to make a real civilizational leap. We will reform the administration so that it best performs its main task -to make it easier for citizens and entrepreneurs to act, to save their time, today too often wasted on bureaucratic tedium. We will introduce into the administration measures of its efficiency and citizen-friendliness. Eliminating unnecessary procedures and shortening administrative deadlines will be priority tasks. www.platforma.org An efficient state JUSTICE An efficient state largely depends on an efficient judiciary. The many years of delay in this area have been one of the most important challenges for us in the passing term. We have achieved quite a lot -independence of the prosecutor's office, e-court, land registers available online -but the justice system still requires many changes to fully adapt it to the standards of a modern state. What we have accomplished • We have separated the office of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. Thus, Poland, after many years, joined the ranks of European countries where it is not a politician, but an independent specialist who holds the highest prosecutorial post. • We have implemented the project of electronization of proceedings, along with the consistent equipping of courts with modern technology a free citizen and an efficient stateIT. Some 1,600,000 cases have already been submitted to the e-court (electronic court), which has been in operation since the beginning of 2010, of which some 1,300,000 have been settled. • We have enabled public and universal access to land and mortgage registers via the Internet. Some 23 million accesses to land and mortgage registers have already been recorded. • We have launched a project for audio/video recording in courtrooms, the so-called e-recordings. The recordings will replace the current method of documenting the hearing in the form of written minutes. In the fall of 2011, audio/video recording of hearings will begin in 290 courtrooms in district courts and 56 courtrooms in appellate courts. • We have introduced a system of electronic supervision, which allows for the execution of a sentence of imprisonment outside prison. To date, 2,700 people have already been sentenced under this system. • We have facilitated access to the legal profession. We have changed the rules of apprenticeship examinations to make them more transparent for candidates. We shortened the apprenticeship to three years, and significantly www.platforma.org expanded the catalog of people who can take professional exams without an apprenticeship, a free citizen and an efficient stateand introduced a common test for ad-vocacy and counselor's apprenticeship. As a result, the current number of apprentices is the highest ever. • We have reduced the fee for the lawyer's apprenticeship by about PLN 1,400, and the fee for the counselor's apprenticeship by about PLN 700. • There has been a significant increase in the number of lawyers practicing the profession -in 2008 it was about 7,000, now it is 9,277, and with the enrollment of those who successfully passed the June test, the number of lawyers should be about 10,200. This increase in availability should significantly reduce the cost of legal services for citizens and companies. • We have conducted a pilot program of "Practical Legal Education" for high school students. Several thousand students from more than a hundred classes were included in the program. • We have implemented an aid program called "Network for Assistance to Victims of Crime," under which sixteen provincial centers for assistance to victims of crime were established. www.platforma.org The number of people who passed the bar application exam 1 219 4 552 3 463 SLD government (2001-2005) Law and Justice government, Self-Defense, LPR (3 exams between December 2005 and June 2007) PO-PSL government (3 exams between September 2008 and September 2010)*. * Status as of 2010, the number will increase after the exam held on September 24, 2011. Source: MS The number of people who passed the examination for the counselor's apprenticeship 3 074 8 855 5 124 SLD government (2001-2005) Law and Justice government, Self-Defense, LPR (3 exams between December 2005 and June 2007) PO-PSL government (3 exams between September 2008 and September 2010)*. * Status as of 2010, the number will increase after the exam held on September 24, 2011. Source: MS a free citizen and an efficient statewww.platforma.org Number of people who passed the notary application exam 164 470 1 583 SLD government (2001-2005) Law and Justice government, Self-Defense, LPR (3 exams between December 2005 and June 2007) PO-PSL government (3 exams between September 2008 and September 2010)*. * Status as of 2010, the number will increase after the exam held on September 24, 2011. Source: MS Unpaid employment of convicts 9798 3970 3134 2991 670 65 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 20092010 1st half 2011 Public works Charitable works Cleaning works Source: MS a free citizen and an efficient stateWhat we will do • We will reduce the time of court proceedings by a third on average through better court management and computerization. We will change the organizational structure of the courts, and personnel and financial resources will be used efficiently. The courts will be headed by directors selected from among specialists in the management of public institutions, public finances, investment management and management of state property. Court presidents will focus on their core responsibilities: directing judicial activities and working with judges. A system of evaluating the work of judges, combined with an individual development plan, will be implemented, which will significantly increase the quality of their work. • We will establish public databases of professional attorneys for court proceedings. This will ensure that professional attorneys can be verified automatically. • We will replace the traditional bank enforcement title with an electronic title. Following this, we will computerize the proceedings for granting an enforceability clause to a bank enforcement title. This will speed up www.platforma.org proceedings, simplifying procedures, and reducing costs. • We will make it possible for a creditor to initiate enforcement by electronic means in cases other than those in which a payment order has been issued in electronic writ of payment proceedings. It will be possible to electronically file not only motions to initiate execution, but also other letters and motions. • We will complete the implementation of the Elec-tronic Supervision System so that it covers 7,500 convicts (on a daily and monthlybasis). • We will simplify bankruptcy law so that proceedings will be shortened to the OECD average, and liquidated companies will be able to recover quickly, preserving the value of productive assets and maintaining jobs. • We will expand the group of people who can take the professional exam without taking an apprenticeship (especially by shortening the required periods). • We will expand the "Practical Legal Education" program, among other things, by creating School Legal Circles, whose main goal will be to expand legal awareness among children and young people, a free citizen and an efficient stateTo familiarize them with the principles of the legal order and give them practical legal knowledge. • We will introduce provisions whereby noncustodial detainees (those incarcerated for non-payment of financial penalties) will work off their sentence with unpaid labor, such as flood protection work or forest cleaning. • We will radically limit the access of special services and police to citizens' phone records and increase control over the use of wiretaps. EFFICIENT ADMINISTRATION Civic Platform is an ally of Polish entrepreneurs and a promoter of civil liberties. For years, we have been trying to support small and medium-sized businesses, promote the entrepreneurial attitudes of Poles, encourage university graduates to take initiative into their own hands, and take care of the ac-tivation of the unemployed. In the past term, we began groundbreaking work on deregulation -removing unnecessary regulations that raise the cost of business and take away people's valuable time. www.platforma.org What we have accomplished • The administration is undergoing a digital revolution: From "paper" administration to e-administration. We have introduced a system of electronic tax returns (e-declarations). In 2011 alone, some 4 million tax declarations were filed online, of which fi-ficants filed almost one million annual tax returns (e-PIT). • We have introduced cheaper and easier to use electronic invoices. • Eliminating the TIN. Individuals who are not entrepreneurs will not have to use a TIN. They will simply be able to use their PESEL number. • We introduced the "Zero Window" system (Sys-The system is a tool of the Central Register of Business Activity Information (Centralna Ewidencja i Informacji o Działalości Gospodarczej). With its help, one can quickly and efficiently set up one's own business activity and gain access to a database of all registered entities. During its first month of operation, it was used by more than 11,000 people. • From January 2012 year will can apply the simplest company z limited a free citizen and an efficient stateliability without the involvement of a notary public within 24 hours online. • In 220 cases, we replaced the certificate with a nia obtained in the offices by statements from the concerned citizens themselves. This is a real revolution in the relationship between the state and citizens. • In the Tax Ordinance, we have introduced the presumption of innocence of the taxpayer until a final decision is made. There will never again be a repeat of the scandalous "Ka-zus Kluska". • We have simplified accounting for small businesses. • We have reduced the cost of registry entries. • We have eliminated the business registration fee. • More companies can pay advance income tax quarterly, instead of the cumbersome monthly mode. According to the most prestigious international institutes, under the Civic Platform government, Poland's position is firmly improving in rankings of economic freedom and competitiveness. www.platforma.org And this is happening at the same time that Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index is improving. The results of the Law and Justice governments were much worse, and under the Democratic Left Alliance we saw a regression in two indices. Deregulation indicators and rankings Years to be evaluated Rank position 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 2001 2002 SLD-UP Law and Justice-SO-LPR PO-PSL 2003 200432 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 31 30 36 34 32 39 39 40 41 39 41 39 45 44 43 43 45 50 42 51 44 44 46 41 54 52 53 58 49 66 64 67 70 61 61 68 71 77 75 74 76 76 71 73 70 80 86 82 Economic Freedom Index (Heritage Foundation & The Wall Street Journal) Doing Business report (World Bank) Global Competitiveness Index (World Economic Forum) World Competitiveness Yearbook (International Institute for Management Development) Digital Economy/E-readiness ranking (Economist Intelligence Unit) Human Development Index (United Nations) Corruption Perceptions Index (Transparency International) Source: MF a free citizen and an efficient statewww.platforma.org During the rule of Civic Platform, Poland became the sixth most attractive country in the world for foreign investors. In just one year, we moved up as many as six positions in the international ranking of the UNCTAD agency. What we will do In the removal of barriers to entrepreneurship and civic ac-tivity lie tremendous opportunities for growth, which is why deregulation and reducing bureaucracy will become a priority of our economic policy. Our actions will go in four directions: • Good law - draft laws will be procedown only after passing a rigorous examination of their suitability for citizens and pre-businesses, which will curb the legislative chase in the government ad-ministration. • EU directives will be able to be transposed into Polish law only in the minimum version, in accordance with the principle of "the EU and not a single more cinch." • Draft laws will have to -mandatorily include a review of best practices a free citizen and an efficient stateThe most advanced countries. Each law will include a provision for mandatory parliamentary review of its effects after up to three years in effect, so that assumptions can be compared with effects. • We will establish an intervention office (antibureaucratic emergency) under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Plenipotentiary, which will collect citizens' complaints about bureaucratic absurdities and intervene in offices and institutions on an ongoing basis, urging them to simplify and speed up the handling of matters. • Deregulation - in a comprehensive way will-. We will simplify and eliminate embarrassing and unnecessary regulations so as to expand economic and civic freedom. We will focus on those areas that have the greatest impact on the economy and people's lives, such as: • We will shorten the deadline for obtaining a building permit to 100 days (from about 300) and reduce the number of procedures from 30 to 15. • We will free up half of the regulated professions and create uniform rules of operation www.platforma.org professional self-government, including the freedom to associate and form associations. • We will reduce the number of procedures required for company registration by integrating government information systems. • We will embark on a major overhaul of control institutions in the state to reduce their number to only those necessary. • We will do away with the separate business procedure in court proceedings. Disputes between entrepreneurs will be handled in the same way as disputes between other citizens, which will speed up their settlement. Despite the abolition of proceedings in business cases, we intend to retain the so-called commercial courts as specialized departments of common courts in the area of case settlement. • E-government - we will connect offices in informatic network to save citizens and businesses visits to offices and simplify their interaction with the administration. For example a free citizen and an efficient stateWe will make it possible to pick up passports and other personal documents at any Pol-ica office or by postal guarantee. • We will introduce a system that will make it possible to travel by car without doc-uments. A police officer stopping a driver for inspection will have a mobile device in his police car, which, by c o n n e c t i n g to central servers, will be able t o transmit, on the basis of selected in- formation (e.g., PESEL), data about the driver or car. • Starting in 2013, we will introduce an electronic identity card (pl.ID). Thanks to the free electronic signature stored in the ID card, contact with authorities will be much simpler. • We will create a system so that a passport can be picked up anywhere in the country or received directly, by mail to your home. • Public consultation-according to our philo-With the philosophy of unleashing creativity and cooperation, we will invite everyone to interactively opi-nize the government's projects and ideas from the earliest stage. We will use the Internet www.platforma.org and social networks to actively moderate the discussion of government and parliamentary projects. We will make it mandatory for a government think tank to analyze proposals coming from citizens. • In addition to deregulatory measures, we will develop a reform of the state's administrative center to increase the efficiency of the executive branch through its consolidation and greater focus on strategic thinking. We want the government's central administration to make greater use of knowledge, social activism and material resources at its disposal. The proposed changes should also contribute to the development of new technologies in administration to facilitate contact between the government and the citizen. TAXES AND OTHER CHARGES We want taxes to be as low as possible (but we must always take into account the need to keep public finances in balance), and to make paying them as easy as possible. Although we know that ni-when it won't be a pleasure! a free citizen and an efficient stateWhat we have accomplished We are fighting the global crisis by maintaining a low share of taxes in GDP. This is necessary to ensure rapid economic development in the medium term. • In the first year of our government we endured The so-called Religi tax. • In 2009, despite the onset of the crisis and the more difficult situation of public finances, we upheld the decision to reduce the basic PIT rate from 19% to 18%, lowering the 30% rate to 18% and the 40% rate to 32%. This left more than 8 billion zlotys more in the pockets of Poles. • We shortened the time limit for VAT refunds from 180 to 60 days, eliminated more than 30% of sanctions for incorrectly filling out a tax return, gave taxpayers the opportunity to correct their returns after a tax inspection, and abolished the obligation to submit a guarantee bond of PLN 250,000 for entrepreneurs starting their commercial activities in the European Union. These solutions have left up to PLN 2 billion in the pockets of taxpayers. www.platforma.org • We eliminated the fee for issuing an identity card (thanks to this, 35 million zlotys a year remain in the pockets of citizens). • We have abolished radio and television subscriptions for pensioners and the unemployed. • We have introduced a tax abolition for those working abroad. • In the World Bank's "Paying Taxes" index, Poland improved its position by as many as 31 places last year. We are still low in this ranking, but we are making significant progress. What we will do • In 2014, we will reduce the headline VAT rate to the previous level. • Following the abolition of the TIN, we will abolish the declaration PIT, thus removing from Poles the onerous duty of filing annual tax returns. Soon the tax office will inform each of us how much tax we have paid during the year, on what account, and which tax reliefs we can take advantage of, as well as how much it intends to refund us for the overpaid tax or how much we should pay for it. a free citizen and an efficient stateaccount to pay extra. It will also be possible to preview one's account online and analyze the forecast at mid-year. • We will continue to consistently simplify the regulations for paying taxes. • We will create an official web portal of the Ministry of Finance presenting complete and up-to-date information on the interpretation of tax laws. Regional development Poland is changing before your eyes. Some parts of our country resemble one big construction site (see www.polskawbudowie.pl). No country in history has received such financial support from the EU as Poland, and none has used EU funds so well. This happened because we created an effective system for implementing the funds. Under the PO government, we have incredibly accelerated the pace of catching up with the average wealth in the European Union (measured in GDP). In 2007, Poland's GDP was 54% of the EU average (in 2005 it was 52%), and today it is approaching nearly 2/3 of the EU average. www.platforma.org Negotiations on the next EU budget for 20142020 have now begun. Not yet has the budget been negotiated under such difficult conditions the growing ambitions of the community, the economic crisis and the reluctance of contributors to bear the burden of financing the budget. However, in our view, a true community cannot exist without solidarity, and our strong position in the Union gives us a chance to negotiate another injection of funds that are crucial to the realization of the third wave of modernization and will finally close the gap between us and the wealthiest countries in Europe. We have before us the completion of major infrastructural projects, but also the challenge of using EU funds to support innovation and a knowledge-based economy so that our vision of smart growth comes to fruition. What we have accomplished • We are the European leader in the use of EU funds. According to data from the European Commission (as of August 17, 2011), it has paid out €96.2 billion in advance and interim payments to member states. Of the aforementioned amount, €21 billion went to Poland, which is 22% of all funds paid out to member states to date. a free citizen and an efficient stateFunds paid to Poland and other EU countries in million euros for 2007-2013 25 000 20 000 15 000 10 000 5 000 Bulgaria Belgium Czech Republic Denmark Germany Estonia Greece Spain France Ireland Italy Cyprus Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Hunga ry Malta Netherlan ds Austria Poland Portugal Romania Slovenia Slovakia Finland Sweden United Kingdom Source: MRR • Between 2007 and 2013, EUR 37.6 billion has been earmarked for transport, environmental, energy, education, cultural and healthcare infrastructure under the Infrastructure and Environment Operational Program. The amount allocated for investment in human resources under the Human Capital Operational Program is €11.4 billion. For the innovative economy, i.e. the development of entrepreneurship and the innovativeness of Polish companies, EUR 9.71 billion can be given under the Innovative Economy Operational Program. www.platforma.org Number of companies that benefited from European funds for the innovation of the economy 3284 1986 1188 X 2001-X 2005 X 2005-XI 2007 XI 2007-V 2011 Source: MG • According to estimates, thanks to EU funds for 2007-2013, among other things, 5,964 km of public and communal roads will be built, 18,205 km of new sewage system will be constructed, 411 sewage treatment plants will be rebuilt, more than 95,000 new jobs will be created, 108,000 people will be covered by various forms of education and qualification improvement. 108,000 people will be covered by various forms of education and qualification improvement, more than 20,000 km of broadband Internet will be created, 1,850 new e-services will be created, 384 research centers will receive financial support, 376 research and development projects will be carried out in research centers, 376 new research and development projects will be created, and 1,000 new jobs will be created. a free citizen and an efficient statewww.platforma.org 1,076 labora-tories will be upgraded or modernized, etc. • We have prepared the basis for a modern vision of the development of Poland and its regions in the "Poland 2030 Report." We launched a project to reduce existing strategic documents. The "Plan for the ordering of development stra-tegies," which we adopted, reduces 42 s e c t o r a l strategies to nine integrated development strategies. • We have prepared the "Concept for the Spatial Management of the Country 2030". This document contains proposals for specific changes at each level: national, regional, local and functional, implementing the demands of national development. What we will do • We will maintain Poland's position as a leader in EU cohesion policy. We will plan to take advantage of the next financial perspective, trying to set aside funds also for smart growth, innovation and projects supporting the private sector in building a knowledge-based economy. a free citizen and an efficient state• We will organize and reduce the number of development programs, including multi-year programs. This process will involve mapping currently implemented programs and other strategic documents to the nine existing integrated development strategies. In this way, we will increase the efficiency of spending by concentrating public funds on the implementation of a limited number of priorities. Infrastructure The even development of the country, the elimination of the effects of existing polarization, the balancing of the pace of progress and the improvement of the quality of life for all of us, regardless of where we live, depend primarily on the pace of construction and modernization of roads, the rail network, the development of Internet access and communications services. Although not everything we planned has been done, Poland is now the largest construction site in Europe. We realize that this may create difficulties for many of us in our daily lives, but we also all know that the end result is worth the collective effort of all of us. Cultural centers under construction, playgrounds, renovated railroad stations -all of these are improving the quality of our www.platforma.org life. However, years of lagging behind in the reconstruction and creation of new infrastructure means that much remains to be done. What we have accomplished • First, we simplified the law. We adopted the so-called "road speculative law," which eliminated the two decisions necessary to begin road construction (on determining the location of a road and a construction permit), replacing them with a single one (a decision to authorize a road project), facilitated expropriations and introduced incentives to vacate property. • We cleaned up environmental law (among other things, we shortened the time for issuing an environmental decision from 300 to 100 days) and designated NATURA 2000 protected areas (investments were planned in such a way as to serve the local community on the one hand, and not to threaten the environment on the other). As a result, we have unlocked many infrastructure investments co-financed with EU funds. • We have amended the Public Procurement Law (among other things, the possibility of blocking awarded tenders by showing an error in the content of the announcement has been reduced). a free citizen and an efficient state• We passed a law facilitating public-private partnerships, which, among other things, removed restrictions on entering into PPP agreements and removed the obligation to prepare complicated and costly analyses. • In four years, we have put into service 1,343 kilometers of national roads, including 220 kilometers of highways, 430 km of expressways, 146 km of city bypasses, and nearly 550 km of modern roads after various types of reconstruction. This was possible because we effectively changed the law to create a new system of investment financing. This has unlocked and accelerated road construction in Poland. Freeway Bypass of Wroclaw www.platforma.org • Since November 2007, more than 1,450 km of railroad lines have been renovated and put into operation. We have begun re-structuring activities of PKP SA, which will bring greater efficiency to the company and improve its financial condition, enabling increased investment outlays. Repairs are underway on nearly 2,000 km of railroads. Length of modernized railroad tracks during the SLD-UP, Law and Justice and PO-PSL governments 1450 873 751 2001-2005 2006-2007 2008-2011 Source: MI • A program to renovate and modernize railroad stations was launched last year. We are implementing a program to modernize 70 train stations, which will last until 2015. a free citizen and an efficient state• The modernization of Polish airports has begun. Increasing air traffic, accessibility rights to air transport (lowering ticket prices) mean that Poland's airports must be prepared for higher traffic volumes. Investments are already underway at eight airports in the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T) -Warsaw, Poznan, Gdansk, Wroclaw, Katowice, Krakow, Rzeszow and Szczecin. Airport in Jasionka near Rzeszow www.platforma.org • New airports are also being built in Świdnik near Lublin and Modlin near Warsaw, and their shareholders will be local governments. What we will do • We will complete the government's National Road Construction Program for 2011-2015, including the construction of the A1, A2, A4 and A8 highways. We will strengthen the network of expressway connections and city bypasses. • We will complete the modernization of the convention railroad. We will adapt rail networks to speeds of 120 and 160 km/h, creating a commercially profitable alternative to passenger and freight car transport. We will modernize 200 railroad stations as part of the renovation program. • We will complete the restructuring of the PKP SA group. The companies PKP Cargo, Telekomunikacja Kolejowa, PKP Energetyka, PKP Intercity, PKL will be privatized. • We want the Railway Transport Office to play the role of an ombudsman for passenger rights. We will strengthen its role, placing particular emphasis on a free citizen and an efficient stateRail accessibility for all groups of travelers, including people with disabilities, the elderly, pregnant women, people traveling with children. • We will modernize passenger terminals at airports to increase their capacity. Airports will be better connected to roads and railroads. • Within the framework of housing programs, we want to extend preferential credit to more Polish women and men. By the end of 2012, we will continue the modified "Family on its own" program. • We will propose a new formula for carrying out housing investments, under which people who rent an apartment would gradually pay off the cost of its construction until they acquire full ownership rights. The program is intended to cover those who do not have the creditworthiness t o purchase an apartment and allow housing investments to be made on the basis of rental housing. Special treatment will be given to those whose income makes it otherwise impossible to meet housing needs o n t h e market. Social and communal housing programs with the participation of the state and local government budgets and social housing will be addressed to them. www.platforma.org 164 4. Stable economy • Safe money • Pensions and the labor market • Agriculture • Clean environment www.platforma.org 162 At the end of the government's first year in office, the world's worst economic crisis since World War II erupted. In this context, the most important challenge facing the government became maintaining the credibility and stability of the Polish economy. After three years of crisis, it can be said that the government has performed well in this task. Poland came through the financial crisis in 2009 with a dry foot, maintained and strengthened its growth potential, and is now on a path of consolidating public finances. Fighting the global economic crisis has been and will continue to be our most important task for several more years, especially in the context of the new threats coming from the crisis-ridden eurozone. Therefore, all the pro-gram proposals of the political parties in the area of the economy must be evaluated through the prism of responsibility and prudence. www.platforma.org What we have accomplished In the short term, the government influences employment and economic development through its public finance policies. Already in December 2007, in the 2008 budget inherited from the Law and Justice party, we prudently cut spending by 3 billion zlotys, even though at the time no one had yet thought about the global crisis. The 2009 budget was planned even more frugally, we assumed a deficit of only 18 billion zlotys (9 billion zlotys less than for 2008). • When the global crisis hit Poland with a ricochet, drastically reducing state revenues, we did not lack the courage to amend the budget and introduce austerity packages for 13.5 billion zlotys. At the time, the opposition advocated increased spending and gigantic additional debt for Poles. • The budgets for this year and next year are expected to reduce the public sector deficit by 80 billion zlotys. This is being done mainly by keeping spending growth firmly in check (the so-called spending rule), but also by reforming the Open Pension Fund, the pomo-pensions and raising VAT last year. At the same time, it is worth noting that we are fixing public finances by keeping the share of taxes in GDP low. This is conducive to rapid development. j economic and employment growth in the medium term. Ranking of EU countries by share of tax revenue and contributions in GDP 27.0 27.8 28.9 28.9 29.6 29.8 31.3 31.8 32.9 33.9 34.5 35.1 35.5 36.0 36.7 37.9 38.0 39.0 39.6 41.1 43.3 43.4 43.5 44.4 45.9 47.4 49.0 Latvia Romania Slovakia Bulgaria Ireland Lithuania Spain Polan d Greece Portugal Czech Republi cCyprus Malta Estonia United Kingdom Slovenia Luxembourg Netherlands Hungary Germany Finland Italy France Austria Belgium Sweden Denmark • Anticipating that the eurozone crisis could worsen significantly: 1) we extended for two years and increased to $30 billion the flexible line of credit provided to us by the International Monetary Fund; 2) we have preemptively ensured the financing of the state's needs for 2011 (at a level that now exceeds 90%), thanks to which there is 50 billion zlotys in the state budget account (in previous years it was 7-12 billion zlotys). www.platforma.org Poland has managed to defend economic growth during our four-year rule. It was the fastest in the entire Union during the crisis years (2008-2010), and totaled 10.6%. Among the larger industrialized countries of the entire world, we were in sixth place, ahead of South Korea and Taiwan. As a result, we caught up with the rich countries of Western Europe faster than ever before. • In these three years we have managed to cover the distance that previous governments took more than three times as long, 10 years. If we had developed at that pace, we would have caught up with the EU in terms of living standards only in 49 years. On the other hand, at the current pace, this will become a reality in just 15 years. Currently, our growth is recorded at around 4% of GDP. GDP per capita in Poland by PPS (EU27=100) 0.78 pp. per year At this rate, it will take 49 years to catch up with the EU27 60,5% 56,3% 54,5% 51,9% 50,6% 51,3% 46,7% 47,7% 48,5% 48 , 2% 47,5% 48,2% 48,8% 44,8% 42,9% 2.5 pp. per year At this rate, it will take 15 years to catch up with the EU27 41,2% 40,3% + 7,8 + 7,5 10 years, 1997-2007 3 years, 2007-2010 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 62,0% Source: AMECO, EC www.platforma.org • However, economic growth must serve the people, never the other way around. It must make Poles richer and, most importantly, provide them with jobs. This, too, we have been able to achieve. Despite the global crisis, thousands of new jobs have been created in Poland. Nearly half of all additional jobs created in Europe in 2008-2010 were created in Poland (730,000). In terms of new jobs, we are in first place in Europe, ahead of Germany (650 thousand), and it is worth remembering that they have more than twice the population. Compared to the same quarter of 2007, we already have more than a million new jobs in Poland. Number of employed (LFS) - international comparison of changes in the period 2008-2010 528 157 108 69 18 8 7 5 -19 -37 -40 -44 -84 -86 -93 -114 -121 -145 -176 -177 -191-192-200 -273 -350 Poland Germany France Belgium Austria Luxembourg Malta Cyprus Sweden Slovenia Czech Republic Slovakia Finland Estonia Denmark Netherlan ds Romania Greece Hungary United Kingdom Latvia Lithuania Portugal Bulgaria Ireland Italy Spain Source: Eurostat -1900 What we will do • We will strive for a balanced budget during the next term. We will reduce the debt to 48% of GDP from the current 53%. We will take steps to bring the debt down to 40% of GDP by 2018. With this consolidation of public finances, the cost of debt service and market borrowing by the public and private sectors will fall. The National Bank of Poland will have room to lower interest rates, which will support economic growth. • In order to maintain Poland's financial credibility and ensure the financing of all the state's needs for its citizens in the event of a potential return of the global financial crisis, we will maintain our Flexible Credit Line with the IMF and secure future state financing as early as this fall. • We will implement a target budget rule that will tie the spending limit to medium-term economic growth. www.platforma.org SAFE MONEY The state has a duty to safeguard against possible turbulence in the banking sector, keeping in mind the safety of thousands of Polish companies and millions of consumers. What we have accomplished • With the outbreak of the global crisis, we were one of the first governments in Europe to create a legal framework to further secure Poles' money in banks. As early as December 2008, the Sejm passed an increase in the guarantee of our accounts from 22,000 euros to 50,000 euros (and in 2009 additionally to 100,000 euros). • In 2009, as part of the anti-crisis package, we also introduced the so-called "liquidity law," providing additional liquidity to banks as needed, and the "recapitalization law," allowing the state to strengthen the banks' ka-pital strength, thereby safeguarding the interests of bank customers and the sta-bility of the banking sector. • In August of this year, the so-called "spread law" went into effect, allowing those who have taken out loans in foreign currency, pay installments directly in that currency (purchased at any bank or exchange office). This should eliminate the use of the unfavorable zloty-to-currency exchange rate for customers when paying installments. • A study of resilience to economic shocks (the so-called "stress test") conducted in July of this year by the European Banking Authority (EBA) showed that Bank PKO BP is the third safest among Europe's 91 largest banks. • Analogous surveys of other Polish banks conducted by the National Bank of Poland and the Polish Financial Supervision Authority show that Poland's banking sector is one of the most secure in Europe. What we will do • We will introduce in the next term a so-called bank prudential fee, paid by institutions conducting banking activities. These funds will be directed to the Bank Guarantee Fund, rather than to the state budget, and will be able to be used -instead of the taxpayer's funds -in the event of a need to www.platforma.org to recapitalize any of the banks as a result of a possible future financial crisis. • We will strengthen the Polish banking sector by, among other things, creating a Systemic Risk Board under the chairmanship of the President of the NBP, along the lines of the European Systemic Risk Board, chaired by the President of the European Central Bank, which will better ensure the long-term security of our funds in banks. PENSIONS AND MARKET JOBS "Decent retirement and more jobs" is not just a good-sounding election slogan. They are first and foremost concrete goals that every government must be able to realize, and this is especially difficult during the global economic crisis. Only a responsible fiscal policy combined with consistent system change can fully realize these demands. What we have accomplished • We maintained the reduction in the pension contribution and PIT sta-tions, despite the fact that many experts urged the us to return to earlier rates in times of crisis. We consciously chose the more difficult path, knowing that upholding these decisions entails preparing public finances for a significant shortfall in state revenues. • We have reformed the open pension funds to curb the growth of the debt, while securing future pensioners. In addition, those who save in so-called individual retirement security accounts (IKZE) will benefit from a special tax break. • We have also lowered the fee charged by OFEs on contributions -from 7% to 3.5%, making pensions safer, while at the same time lowering the state's borrowing needs. • The most important reform was the introduction of bridge pensions. Unlike the previous government, we were not afraid to do this. Thanks to these changes, crucial for the completion of the pension reform, by 2015 the effective retirement age will increase by 3 years. By 2020, this will give our entire society nearly 45 billion zlotys in savings. www.platforma.org • We managed to maintain high economic growth. As a result, we have been able to fully meet our obligations to the elderly population. In a situation where many other countries were making sharp cuts in benefits, we managed to raise pensions on average from PLN 1347 in 2007 all the way up to PLN 1785 in 2011. In 2005, they were as low as 1257 zlotys. • By ensuring economic stability, we have been able to raise the minimum wage in a non-discriminatory manner, i.e. in such a way that it has not increased unemployment. For 2012, we raised it to PLN 1,500. This means an increase of PLN 564 compared to the Law and Justice governments, and up to PLN 651 compared to the SLD governments. Gross minimum wage 1 500.0 1 386.0 936.0 849.0 2005 2007 2011 2012 Source: MF • We adopted the so-called "anti-crisis package," which made it easier for businesses to respond flexibly to the crisis, including by settling working hours for longer and introducing mobile working time. • Despite the crisis, the unemployment rate in the first six months of 2011 was 12.8%, compared to 13.9% in 2007, a time of great global coonunion, and as high as 19.0% in 2005. • Unemployment rate among college graduates decreased from 22.8% in 2007 to www.platforma.org 21.5% at present (in 2005 it was as high as 31.3%). In this respect, Poland's position in the EU has improved by as many as four positions compared to the SLD and PiS governments. • The main cause of poverty is lack of work. For-ward, by creating new jobs and reducing unemployment, we have also fought poverty. We have reduced the percentage of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion from 34.4% in 2007 to 27.8% today. In 2005, it was even higher, at 45.3%. What we will do • The salaries of the budget sphere, frozen due to the crisis, will begin to rise again. Just as we have consistently increased teachers' salaries, we will gradually raise the salaries of other socially important professional groups, starting with academy teachers and police officers. • Following the example of the most developed countries, we will introduce legislation to guarantee women's "equal pay for equal work," eliminating dis-discrimination against women in the workplace. • We will introduce uniformed pension reform. We will do this while respecting the rights of the former, which means that the new rules will not affect those currently working in these services. • We will increase the efficiency of OFE asset management. For those approaching retirement, we will introduce safe funds, while for younger people we will leave the funds more efficient, so that they can fully benefit from stock market increases in the long term. • We will increase tax benefits for voluntarily saving for retirement for Poles to 6% of income to motivate them to save and strengthen retirement security. • We will open up professions that have so far remained closed, because this primarily harms young people, who find it most difficult to get their first job. In doing so, we will follow the example of countries such as Sweden and Finland, where the number of regulated professions is the lowest in the EU. • We will continue to intensively privatize enterprises under the control of the State Treasury. At the same time, we will modernizewww.platforma.org we manage the Treasury's holdings in enterprises of key importance to the economy so that they are in line with private sector standards. AGRICULTURE In recent years, Polish agriculture, thanks to EU funds and a booming agri-food industry, has experienced rapid development. Polish cheeses, preserves and meats are popular on world markets. Thanks to this, the Polish countryside is changing. It is becoming an attractive place to work, live and work. The gap in living standards between rural areas and cities is narrowing. The growing demand for food in the world creates an opportunity for the countryside and agriculture to be included in our program of inteli-gent development. Agriculture should remain an important part of the Polish economy and the foundation of food security for current and future generations. Therefore, we want to support the development of modern agriculture. This requires intelligent and cooperative use of public funds. The goal should be to support family farms in increasing their acreage and creating producer groups, because this is the only way to combine the maintenance of the high quality and safety of Polish food with higher farm profitability and an increase in the quality of life of people in the countryside. What we have accomplished • Since Poland's accession to the EU, public support for farmers has already amounted to more than PLN 113 billion, including more than PLN 76 billion from the Common Agricultural Policy. • The main mechanism for supporting the modernization of Polish agriculture is direct subsidies. Polish farmers have received more than PLN 63 billion in direct subsidies. Nearly 1.5 million farmers benefit from hectare-based subsidies. • Poland is also a leader in the use of other instruments of the Common Agricultural Policy. The total value of funds transferred for the modernization of Polish agriculture from the Rural Development Program has already exceeded the amount of PLN 26 billion, which puts our country in first place among EU countries. In the record year 2010 alone, the amount of support amounted to PLN 8.2 billion, and in 2011 it has already exceeded PLN 6 billion. www.platforma.org • In addition, EU funds benefit Polish fishermen. They have already received more than a billion zlotys from EU funds, and an additional billion will be distributed in the near future. • We are also implementing a number of measures to counter depopulation in the countryside. We have increased the amount of bonuses for young farmers from 50 thousand to 75 thousand zlotys. For students from rural families with incomes of up to PLN 600 per person, we have created a program to provide guarantees of up to 100% of the loan amount used. The budget for "structural pensions" was increased by 320 million euros. For agricultural producers, we introduced the possibility of obtaining preferential loans to finance the purchase of shares in processing plants. We created nine special Agri-Food Promotion Funds, managed exclusively by farmers. • The number of agricultural producer groups is growing. Tylko in 2008 158 new groups were registered. There are nearly 700 of them across the country. Already the preference for producer groups in aid activities is in force, and their further development is part of our philosophy of cooperative development and prosperity. • More than €70 million in funds from the Rural Development Program have been allocated for the implementation of the "My Market" program, through which a marketplace will be created in each county, where farmers and agricultural producers will sell their products. What we will do • Thanks to the government's policy, Polish farmers will remain the main beneficiaries of EU funds in the next EU multiannual financial framework after 2013. • Implementation of ambitious projects using EU funds will accelerate the introduction of new production technologies in agriculture and improve the quality of production. It will also serve to harmonize the conditions of agricultural production with environmental protection requirements and healthy food, which will be to a greater extent our export hit. • We will support family farms to continue to produce good and cheap food, to preserve their great social, cultural and national value. A simplified system will be prepared for these farms www.platforma.org The acquisition of EU funds. The obligation to provide the same detailed information every year will be abolished. "Family farm package" will encourage modernization, development and competition of farms among themselves. • We will introduce a preferential conlidation loan (similar to a mortgage) for family farms wishing to expand their acreage, provided that they maintain agricultural accounts. In the first half of 2011, more than 51,000 hectares of land under state ownership were sold. Most of the buyers were groups of family farmers who purchased land to expand their own farms. • According to the Accession Treaty, in 2013 we will reach a level of direct payments to farmers of 100%. However, due to historical conditions (including the amount of the reference yield), the formal equalization of payments does not mean that Polish farmers will receive support equal to the amount of aid received in other EU countries. That's why as early as 2008 we started a ba-taly to change the rules of the Common Agricultural Policy after 2013. Discussions, meetings and consultations on this issue are ongoing all the time. We are in favor of moving away from historical titles to payments. We are in favor of creating a fair, simple and transparent system of non-direct subsidies. More and more countries support our point of view. • We will take measures aimed at restructuring and increasing agricultural productivity by supporting the development of an innovative agri-food sector. This development will take place through modernization, support for innovation and efficiency of production, as well as through support for obtaining energy from renewable sources. • Thanks to the "Świetliki" program, broadband Internet in every municipality, e-books and cohesion funds earmarked for the development and modernization of rural infra-structure, we will continue to remedy the unequal start of rural youth -unequal access to knowledge and skills upgrading, including in areas related to modern management. • The key to modernizing the Polish countryside is education from the first years of a child's life. Resolved "C r è c h e Act" and programs supporting the creation of day-care centers for children (the "Toddler" program) will allow to increase the www.platforma.org The number of nurseries and kindergartens in rural areas. • We will undertake activities to popularize the ownership of personal computers by farmers and training to prevent e-exclusion in the countryside (in the areas of network use, ICT and e-business). • We will focus our activities on supporting the development of rural entrepreneurship, primarily agritourism, and promoting local entrepreneurs, facilitating their home production, processing and sale of agricultural products. • We will allocate one billion zlotys of EU funds to the Rural Entrepreneurship Fund. With its help, we will support people leaving agriculture for other self-employment activities, which will increase econo- mic diversification in the countryside, support the development of services and professional mobility of rural residents. CLEAN ENVIRONMENT Polandhasbeen developi ng rapidlyin recent years and is catching up with many years of infrastructural and economic backlog. This dynamic development is taking place in accordance with the principles of environmental protection, which is why our country still stands out from other European countries for its unspoiled nature, beautiful forests, and picturesque landscape. Our goal is to continue to effectively protect and promote Poland's unique environmental resources, while supporting the country's long-term economic development and taking care of a better quality of life for Poles. What we have accomplished • We unblocked environmental procedures for investments, thanks to which it was possible to sign the largest number of contracts for the construction of roads and highways in history. We ended a senseless, destructive and costly dispute over the Ro-spuda Valley, thereby proving that it is possible to build infrastructure in Poland with respect for valuable ecosystems. We reduced the time for issuing environmental permits from 300 to 100 days. • We have ended disputes with Brussels, including www.platforma.org over the designation of NATURA 2000 areas, thanks to which we unlocked funding EU projects. • We are the best in the history of Poland in the use of funds. The basic principle for selecting beneficiaries has been competitions. We have distributed nearly €5 billion for pro-environmental investments. • We have created a new system of waste management -so that from January 2012, mountains of garbage will begin to disappear from the Polish landscape, entrepreneurs will gain the ability to con-cern the entire country, the role of local governments in waste management willbe strengthened. • Provisions on the European Union's climate policy are being eased. Thanks to the decisive stance of Polish negotiators, we have worked out favorable provisions on the energy and climate package in relation to the previous government's commitments adopted by the European Council in 2007 to reduce emissions by 20% and 30%. Thanks to the government's ne-gional strategy over the past four years, Poland has become an important player in Europe whose opinion on energy and climate policy should be reckoned with. www.platforma.org • We have begun to make money on the climate. Poland has significantly reduced emissions -despite the negligence of the PiS government, we have created a system through which Poland obtains funds for climate investments -in this way we have already earned more than 80 million euros. The money is used mainly for thermo-investments in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes and eco- logical energy generation. • We created the "Green Evo" project to promote abroad the best Polish entrepreneurs in the environmental protection industry. In this way we develop Polish technological thought and promote ingenuity and creativity. What we will do • The government's most important goal is to provide citizens with a high quality of life clean air, clean water and green spaces, in harmony with the country's economic development. • It is crucial to preserve Poland's unique nature in good condition. Covering the most valuable natural fragments of the country with protection and maintaining the biodiversity that is outstanding in Europe is our obligation to future generations. It will be the government's endeavor to continue activities related to www.platforma.org with the enlargement of the protected area of the Bialowieza Primeval Forest, the extension of the protection of the unique landscape and nature of the Mazurian Lake District, and the creation of support mechanisms for entities farming in protected areas. A major problem for the protection of Polish plant species may become the sowing of genetically modified plants in the fields. The government will strive to make it possible to create GMO-free zones in Poland. • Nearly 28% of Poland's area is made up of forests of exceptional quality. It is necessary to continue the program to increase the country's forest cover. It is also necessary to maintain the integrity of the State Forests. The state must remain the owner of the forests. • Caring for the residents of Polish cities, we will-support environmentally friendly forms of transportation -public transport and bicycle paths. We will develop intelligent traffic light systems that not only relieve traffic jams, but also reduce exhaust emissions. As a result of significant improvements in urban planning, green areas (including parks) will be effectively protected in cities, which, in addition to their recreational functions, perform other important biological functions, purify the air and retain water. • Despite the introduction of many simplifications and the shortening of the waiting time for an environmental decision, environmental procedures and regulations are still complicated. We will strive to simplify the ad-ministrative burden in this area for entrepreneurs, in particular by simplifying the law and procedures, as well as fully computerizing this sector. • We will support the further development of civil society by strengthening cooperation with NGOs for the protection of natural resources and the simultaneous economic development of the country. • We will reform the management of water management in Poland so as to organize the in- stitutional system, as well as the management and financing system, including by separating water management from infrastructure management. • By 2015, we will have completed key projects related to the security of major urban centers and other areas at high risk of flooding. www.platforma.org 192 