STRONG POLAND,RENEWED WEST DIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS POLICY AGENDA FOREIGN PLATFORM CIVIC Warsaw, July 2019 Dear Sirs, We are proud to present the Foreign Policy Program of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland. It was developed by the PO's international affairs team at a special moment. First, Polish foreign policy, especially European policy, is in a terrible state. Probably in no area of state policy have four years of the current government wreaked so much havoc. Second, the world is descending into increasing chaos. The commonwealth of the West is being severely tested from without and from within, and its enemies are becoming increasingly aggressive. The European Union is going through a difficult period, although there is also evidence of its resilience and symptoms of renewal. In this difficult situation, the Civic Platform proposes first and foremost: DIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS◾The reconstruction of real dialogue and the broadest possible consensus on the main directions of Poland's foreign policy, as well as the systemic improvement of the organization of the state in areas key to international effectiveness; ◾regaining real influence on the most important decisions of the European Union, treated as an important multiplier of our national potential, especially for the improvement of the quality of life of Poles; ◾plan of action to preserve the unity of the Western world, a prerequisite for which is the restoration of Poland's international credibility as a state of freedom, democracy and law. I encourage you to read these and our other proposals contained in the Foreign Policy Program of the Obywa-tel Platform of the Republic of Poland. Chairman of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland 2 3 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSIntroduction P he foreign policy must serve national interests, promote the growth of Polish prosperity and security, and strengthen the international position of our country. The overriding goal of Civic Platform's foreign program is to permanently anchor a strong, prosperous and influential Poland in the civilizational and political space of the West. Poland has the potential and should codetermine the directions of development of this community. Only within its framework will it be possible to effectively provide Poles with security-. st and prosperity. Changes in the world, conflicts in the neighborhood, the crisis in the West and the weakening of Poland as a result of the rule of Law and Justice mean that once the democratic opposition takes over responsibility for the state, carrying out such a policy will take place under difficult conditions. The basis of foreign policy effectiveness must be: ◾Proper identification of challenges and threats to the strategic interests of the RP, as well as the selection of instruments for their implementation; ◾Protecting the cohesion and strength of the communities that strengthen Poland's security and development, primarily the European Union and NATO; ◾Rebuilding Poland's importance in these organizations and the ability to influence the direction of their activities in accordance with our interests. Polish foreign policy will be characterized by ambition, realism and professionalism. A well-governed Poland -aware of its in-terests -must take advantage of emerging development opportunities and cannot stand on the sidelines of changes in the world. 4 5 DIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSWHERE ARE WE? 1. Poland, after regaining its freedom in 1989, effectively implemented the by 2015 the dreams of many generations of patriots: she correctly read the opportunities and neutralized the threats, and, as a result, accelerated development and strengthened its own subjectivityand national security. Oregion and the world, but also without giving up its firm pursuit of Osion achieved its goals without antagonizing its partners in the the interests of the Polish people. She built democracy and a market economy, which increased the wealth of citizens. It won and used international aid, including European funds to accelerate socioeconomic development and improve social cohesion. We have become the world's best example of success. The Civic Platform wants to protect this position, and in many respects, from-. build. 7 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS2. PiS policies since 2015 have drastically lowered Poland's international standing and reduced its ability to achieve the country's strategic goals. P P For four years, PiS has eroded much of the Polish people's achievements. It undermined democratic institutions, social solidarity, media freedom, and weakened state security structures. PiS's modus operandi -prioritizing propaganda over strategy resulted in an inability to build lasting international coalitions to serve Poland's development and security. The military's command elite has been destroyed and humiliated, and the personnel potential has been grossly weakened diplomacy. PiS does not understand the modern world and sees no connection between Polish interests and respect for the law and the strength of European institutions. It sees their crisis as an opportunity for mindless and seemingly unpunished disregard for values, norms and procedures, and for satisfying fringe circles. In domestic politics, the democratic mandate of the 2015 elections and ad hoc responses to the 8 9 DIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSThe social expectations of part of the population were treated by the Law and Justice team as if they were enough to challenge the constitutional order, foment division and hatred, and build its own nomenklatura. Instead of caring about Western unity, including within NATO, one card was played in Washington or initially in London forgetting that Poland lies at the heart of Europe, and ignoring the lessons of history. Relations with Ukraine were sacrificed for the applause of the far right. Shaky alliances in Europe were built not out of concern for strategic national interests and a community of values, but by playing at odds with the majority, with Hungary, Italy, or the French national-letters. Out of dislike for the EU, a populist international was supported, bringing Europe closer to the Russian sphere of influence. The European Parliament elections in May 2019 did not mean an awakening for PiS. It was only realized that anti-EU populists would not be able to effectively influence the evolution of EU structures, and at home, public fear of leaving the EU does not favor the ruling party. Therefore, PiS took up the game of exploiting the rifts between the European Christian Democrats, Socialists, Liberals and Greens, who together maintained a dominant position in the European Parliament. STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSd'état. The PiS government has not influenced and will not influence EU reforms at its own request. PiS people will not take up positions from which Polish interests can be policed. PiS has given up on influencing the Eastern Partnership -Poland's flagship EU project, the main instrument of our Eastern policy. It is to be feared that the next decisions of the EU as a whole and of individual influential member states will be unfavorable to us: this is signaled, for example, by the issue of the EU budget. PiS's continuation of violations of the rule of law in Poland and of elementary solidarity within the EU could lead to even worse scenarios, such as the suspension of our payments from European funds or restrictions on the right of Poles to travel freely in EU countries. PiS's Poland on the margins of EU decision-making processes, or creeping Polexit, is and will remain a fact as long as this government lasts. Its change rises to the level of the Polish raison d'etat. Poland has the potential to play significant international roles, especially in the EU and NATO. Cooperation with other countries increases, and not weaken the ability to realize the Polish raison 10 11 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSGood use of EU and NATO membership and the quality of Polish participation in them can to a large extent protect our country from the effects of unfavorable international trends. A sensible foreign policy, skillful linking of Polish interests with those of the superpowers or close partners and effective multilateralism will give us the opportunity to realize the interests of the state in the global space. Crisis phenomena have also affected the communities of the West. The coming years will determine their further shape. This is of fundamental importance for Poland, so passivity cannot be a virtue. Meanwhile, PiS is limiting activity to throwing around empty slogans about sovereignty and national dignity. Consequently, Polish sovereignty in the PiS fashion signifies permanent conflict and lack of a culture of compromise. Sovereignty so misunderstood had to lead -under the guise of declarations of strategic relations with the United States and with the propaganda bloat of the Trilateral Initiative -to the marginalization of Poland in the world, and even to the de facto promotion of Russia's agenda in Europe. This negative effect was compounded by Law and Justice's rejection of national consensus in foreign policy, support for radicalism, and the use of foreign policy to advance internal party interests. STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSPiS has imposed an archaic understanding of sovereignty on Polish politics. As a result, it has reduced international ties, at the expense of the ability to realize our raison d'état. Today, no European state will be able to meet the economic, social and defense challenges of the 21st century on its own. A modern, realistic and ambitious understanding of sovereignty creates the premise for good foreign policy choices and for effectively i n f l u e n c i n g bilateral and multilateral arrangements, enhances Polish development opportunities and security. 3. In recent years, the international order that has supported Poland's development and security since 1989 has been changing unfavorably.Dhe unfavorable trends include the gradual weakening of the glo-balal causal position of the West, the ease with which democratic norms and institutions are questioned, the growing differences between the United States and its partners in Europe, but also Canada, Australia or Japan, Russia's policy that violates international law, the economic pene-traction of the world by China, based on a civilizational model that is competitive with the West, the interference of foreign actors in the functioning of democratic states (for example, through propaganda in the traditional media and the Internet, cyber attacks), migration pressure and terrorism. As a result, the pillars of the world order created after 1945 and completed after 1989 by, among other things, Poland joining the family of free nations are being undermined. Poland's population, economic and territorial potential provides an opportunity not only to respond to current events, but also to take the initiative to act together with allies. However, this is only feasible if they give us their trust and respect. 12 13 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS4. Tectonic shifts in the international order have an even deeper foundation in technological, economic and social processes. I I nternet and globalization as symbols of modern communications and go- agernment, combined with the deformations of modern capitalism, have brought enormous tensions to the West. They fully manifested themselves after the 2008 crisis. Poland, as a poorer country than its Western neighbors, was sometimes a beneficiary of these transformations (for example, by taking over part of the of production being moved out of countries with higher labor costs). However, maintaining Poland's development trend and accelerating modernization processes requires correct interpretation of new challenges, including technological ones, such as automation and artificial intelligence, as well as effectively defining and satisfying the nation's interests. 5. European Union again can be a major multiplier of Polish political and economic power. The condition is for Poland to regain its position as one of the leaders of the community, capable of leading it Toward renewal and strengthening. P strong place in it, does not seek to realize abstract fede- ralist ideals. P latforma Obywatelska, while defending the EU and Poland's The Union is simply the best mechanism for preventing and resolving conflicts between member states in such a way that the balance of each state's interests is do- ditional in the end. It also provides the constitutional order of member states with a protection that no other organization in the world provides. Thanks to the EU, states can develop stably, in accordance with their own ideals and with a sense of protecting the international rules of the game. Today there are two sides to the dispute in the EU. One side is made up of forces with different histories, achievements and views, but united by a sense of 14 15 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSresponsibility for the fate of European integration treated as the best answer to 20th-century totalitarianisms and wars ("Europe of solidarity"). The other side are groups that reject this elementary solidarity in the name of national particularisms or for the sake of populist pro-social rhetoric ("Europe of egoisms"). Some of them openly call for the destruction of the EU or the withdrawal of their countries from it, while others demand such "corrections" that would actually negate the sense of the EU's existence. We must therefore defend it against both internal threats and those coming from outside. Russia and China are using political pressure, investment and corrupting European elites. They also do so to weaken the cohesiveness of the EU. Importantly, most of the supporters of "Europe of egoisms" stands in solidarity with Putin's Russia. The Law and Justice Party has proven over its four years in power that it adheres to the faction of unsolidarity in Europe. The dismantling or further weakening of the European Union has led to the return of politics as a game, in which gaining benefits for one country comes at the expense of the interests of another. This always means losses for weaker, poorer countries with difficult16 17 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSa lesser position. For Poland, a European Union without solidarity, even if imperfect, would mean a lack of EU budget funds for development, restrictions on our exporters and service providers, fewer educational opportunities for young people, closed borders, further erosion of the rule of law and above all -increased opportunities for Russia to influence Polish and European affairs. In this sense, maintaining and strengthening the EU as a "Europe of solidarity" is in line with the Polish raison d'état. An un-solidarity Union is also a Europe incapable of attracting, urging reform and a meaningful foreign policy from the eastern and southern neighboring countries. It is the unreliable EU that may someday contribute to really big waves of refugees from the south and east and prove incapable of dealing with the challenge. According to Civic Platform, the Solidarity Union is essential for Poland. Dealing with today's challenges requires that the authorities in Warsaw have an influence on such an evolution of the community that, where necessary and possible, will save or develop-. STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSnot the existing instruments (first of all, the single market based on the four freedoms, the EU budget with a significant share of funds for cohesion), but will also allow the creation of new tools, taking maximum account of our needs. Such a perspective the continuation of PiS rule absolutely does not give Poles. At the same time, the May 2019 elections to the European Parliament and the results of elections in subsequent member states show that the groupings of the pro-European camp are increasingly rebuilding voter confidence. A Poland still dominated by Eurosceptic or anti-EU groupings would only deepen the marginalization of our country. 6. The pillars of a sensible alliance policy for Poland's security remain NATO with a strong American presence in Europe, Poland's partnership With the United States strengthening the North Atlantic alliance, As well as a rational European Security and Defense Policy. T complementary. T he three foreign pillars of Polish security are Keeping them conflict-free and analyzing their credibility must permanently characterize Poland's strategy. A secure Poland is a state in which allies will equate its security with their own, will not be willing to make international agreements at our expense, will view Poland as a Part of a common system. On these issues, the Civic Platform's position has been consistent for years and is firmly rooted in the feelings of the Polish people. It is not changing, although today the question is resounding more and more clearly, 18 19 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENShow to harmoniously link the issues identified above so that their combined potential continues to strengthen Poland's security. NATO has strongly anchored Polish defense in multilateral solutions for the past twenty years, protecting the interests of smaller states and limiting the arbitrariness of larger ones. Efforts should be made to strengthen collective defense mechanisms, setting an example in meeting allied budgetary and military stan- dards. The same should be expected of our allies. Strengthening the bilateral military partnership between Poland and the United States has been a cornerstone of Polish policy since the decision was made to withdraw Soviet troops from Poland, and increasing the American military presence on our territory began under the Civic Platform government. Such activities must be continued and we must strive to embed them as strongly as possible in NATO solutions. Only then can the American presence in Poland be sustainable and financially beneficial, while at the same time protecting Polish sovereignty. On strengthening the security of Poland and NATO, the financial and operational rationality of military cooperation, good industrial offsets and the protection of our own sovereign rights, we want to build a Polish-American defense partnership in the future. A strong NATO and defense partnership with the United States must be backed up by Polish involvement in strengthening the European Security and Defense Policy. We should not look to it as an alternative, but as a complement to the project of a secure Poland. It is supposed to support the development of Poland's industrial base, the modernization of our armed forces, bring the best technological and financial military solutions. In this policy lie untapped opportunities to raise development funds and build synergies of Western anti-crisis solutions. The right policy direction in this matter will result, among other things, in the use of funds from the European Defense Fund. It is necessary to make active use of the opportunities inherent in these solutions, overcoming the reprehensible passivity of PiS governments. 20 21 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSWHAT AND HOW WILL WE? O O dbuilding Poland's international position will require time, ambitious realistic plans, increased resources on the state's international activities and focus on priorities. The strategic foreign policy goals of the government formed by the Civic Platform will be: 1. Maximize the development of national potential to enhance Poland's security and development, Specifically by: ◾ to rebuild real dialogue and the broadest possible consensus on the main directions of Poland's foreign policy. The Civic Plat- ter will restore the role of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland as places of reliable democratic debate about Poland's international situation and policy. In response to the withering away during the term of the current president of the National Security Council, we will create a National Security Forum -a platform for consultations between the government and the leaders of the main political parties on international issues. 23 DIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENScompatriots. We will improve public education and make better use of the expert potential of academia and think tanks dealing with international affairs and Poland's foreign policy. Foreign policy goals should be shaped in a broad dialogue with various circles. This, and not party propaganda, should also be served by the Regional Centers for International Debate. ◾ Systemic improvement of the internal organization of the state in areas key to international effectiveness: restoring transparent and professional decision-making in European and foreign affairs; increasing the Prime Minister's involvement in strategic affairs; reforming the functioning of the Council of Ministers and its bodies to improve actual coordination capabilities in managing the state; professionalizing and depoliticizing the state administration and uniformed services. ◾measures to increase the resilience of the Polish state (and more broadly: the entire Western community) to various external infiltration, corruption and propaganda activities. Laws protecting the social order and constitutional order of Poland will be strengthened and enforced. We will take effective steps against hybrid actions by external actors, including through public education, and against cross-border corrupt practices; we will rebuild the ethos and apolitical character of the employees of bodies and services pursuing national interests. ◾ Initiatives to maximize the use of social potential and local government foreign policy facilities: strengthening and improving the cooperation of provincial governments and their capitals with Polish diplomacy; taking the initiative of the annual Polish Foreign Policy Forum as a venue for debate among state, local government, social, non-governmental and expert factors on international challenges for Poland. 25 24 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS2. Foreign policy, especially European policy, to improve the quality of life of Poles ◾ We will provide support, including from the EU Community budget, for the fight against smog, necessary energy changes and responsible climate policy. EU energy and climate policy must contribute to providing Poles with safe, affordable and cleaner energy and protecting their health. We will also aim to use EU instruments to effectively address the province's transportation exclusion (infrastructure and public transport, especially rail). We will also push for the EU budget to help modernize Poland's public services, first and foremost the health service (including through the European cancer program) and to strengthen our higher education to a competitive position throughout the EU. ◾ Foreign policy assistance to the Polish economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and to the promotion of exports and international investment. This will be promoted by, among other things, changes in the Polish Trade and Investment Agency, strengthening it, aligning it with the actual needs of Polish business, and linking it more closely with the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the network of Polish embassies and consulates. We will create a mechanism to link European and foreign policy with the real needs of the Polish economy. To this end, we will establish an Economic Consultative Forum as an advisory institution to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will be composed of representatives of chambers and economic organizations bringing together Polish companies. 26 27 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS3. Efforts to have a real impact on the most important decisions of the European Union, treated as an important multiplier of our national potential, primarily through: ◾ pursuing a policy of effectively influencing the initiation of new or development of existing community policies and activities, rather than isolating ourselves from them. For example, energy and climate policies can, in a desirable scenario, contribute to providing Poles with safe, cheap and cleaner energy and protecting their health, while trade policy is capable of helping our companies expand outside Europe, while in Poland protecting them from unfair competition. ◾ start a serious internal debate and co-working with the other members on the further development of the Economic and Monetary Union, with the security of our development interests. Poles should receive objective honest information on the development of this EU project, potential profits and the consequences and costs of joining and staying out. ◾ adhere to the principle of building variable coalitions within the EU in accordance with Poland's national interests, rather than a community of party options, preferences or ideological phobias. Poland will be open to dialogue and co-working with all EU members. ◾ Return to close cooperation among the largest EU countries. Rebuilding cooperation with Germany and France in the Weimar Triangle, abandoned as a result of PiS policies. ◾Make adjustments in the next EU budget so that the priority of European integration, namely deepening cohesion, does not fall victim to new needs. We will negate the consequences of the PiS failure, resulting in a scenario of Poland losing 100 billion zlotys compared to the current EU budget, and perhaps even greater losses if punitive procedures are implemented against our country for the PiS government's violations of the rule of law 28 29 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS4. We will restore Poland's international credibility as part of the West, a state of freedom, democracy and law, especially through: ◾ to restore the image of Poland as a collective of people proud of its history, and at the same time open and in solidarity with its partners. We will use, among other things, the 40th anniversary of the Solidarity uprising and the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, which falls in 2020, to achieve this. We will repair the standards of action of international diplomacy, governmental and parliamentary authorities of the Republic of Poland, by de-partisanizing, streamlining and simplifying the system of promoting Poland, today wastefully implemented by, among others, the Polish National Foundation. We will tie by law the activities of the Adam Mickiewicz Institute to the work of promoting Poland, carried out by the global network of MFA's foreign missions, including Polish Institutes, and with work to promote Poland through culture. ◾ restoring Poland's international position as a state consistently faithful to international norms and obligations, promoting international solidarity, democracy, freedoms and human rights, including by making full use of Poland's potential as an organizer and expert in inter- national cooperation for democratic change and development. ◾ strong and properly organized support for Polonia and Poles abroad, as well as for all foreign friends of Poland engaged in supporting Polish interests, including creating and promoting a good image of Poland and knowledge of our country. 30 31 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS5. We will actively work to preserve and strengthen the unity of the Western world in the face of powerful challenges, first and foremost in the dimension of the security, by: ◾ countering the growing tendencies on both sides of the Atlantic to exacerbate disputes and differences between the so- sociates of the United States on the one hand and Europe and Canada on the other; raising awareness of the community of challenges and threats and the value of combined potential. ◾ developing innovative concepts to strengthen NATO as a sustainable organization of military and political cooperation among European countries, the United States and Canada, with a national priority to the Alliance's eastern flank, but without closing off to other lines of engagement. ◾ Actively develop the European dimension of security policy in a way that will serve Polish 32 33 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSinterests and needs, but also to strengthen the defense capabilities of the entire West. ◾ close coordination of foreign and security policy with the activities of other ministries, especially the Ministry of Defense, as a tool to strengthen the security guarantees of Poles and to develop the country's own strength, including the modernization of the Polish economy. STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS6. The return of Poland's effectiveness in eastern policy, in an even more challenging external environment, understood as the ability to create opportunities to bring this area with the West, especially closer cooperation with Ukraine, and as constructive a dialogue with Russia as possible, free of illusions, open to building good-neighborly relations in some dimensions. This will be done through: ◾ commitment to regaining Poland's influence as the leading NATO and EU "expert" on eastern neighborhood issues, including effectively building Western awareness of the real causes and methods of the Kremlin's policies toward the West. ◾ new bilateral and multilateral initiatives to accelerate Ukraine's internal modernization and its ties with the West, making full use of the potential of the ties linking our countries, economies, institutions and societies. Involve local governments and the non-governmental sector in the process. Exclusion of historical issues from current and strategic political issues. Creating a separate channel for the debate and process of historical reconciliation on the basis of truth, with the assumption of non-relativization of historical events and the awareness that reconciliation takes time. ◾ develop and consistently implement solutions to prevent the Russian Federation from influencing Poland's domestic policy (as well as that of other countries in the EU and Euro-Atlantic community). At the same time, it is necessary to maintain readiness to develop direct channels of communication between Poland and Russia. Revitalize social, cultural and economic relations. Prepare an attractive offer for Russian society, arousing interest in Poland's history and culture. Restoring local border traffic with the Kaliningrad region. ◾ support for Belarusian independence, including through EU policy instruments and multilateral institutions. Strengthening support for Poles in Belarus. 34 35 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS7. We will be running a new Active regional policy in the Baltic and Central European area, to take advantage of mutual understanding and community of interest for the smooth dismantling of barriers civilizational development and the attainment of Western levels of security, especially through: ◾ Take steps to systemically strengthen Poland's dialogue and multilateral cooperation with Nordic and Baltic partners. Revaluing Poland's involvement in multilateral cooperation formats in the North. New opportunities for the development of the EU Baltic Sea Strategy. ◾ initiate a strategic dialogue with partners on optimizing the existing structures of multilateral cooperation in the region, namely, the Visegrad Group, the Trilateral Initiative and the Bucharest Nine. NATO's eastern flank. Resolve the target model for Poland's participation in the EU regional strategy in this direction (Carpathian, Danube strategies). ◾ the establishment of new expert state analytical centers for northern directions in the Tri-City and southern directions in Krakow. Evaluating the changes made by the PiS government in the institutions in Poznań (the Za-chodni Institute), Lublin (the Central and Eastern Europe Institute) and Warsaw (the Polish Institute of International Affairs). 37 36 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS8. We will activate (selectively) Poland in global issues, primarily through: ◾ strengthening our role in international insti- tutions and political, economic and financial initiatives that influence the process of shaping the standards governing global cooperation in various fields. ◾ consistent support for a world order aimed at strengthening instruments for the consolidation of peace and sustainable development of individual countries, as well as initiatives aimed at liberalizing international trade, in which we see both a source of stability and prosperity for the world and an opportunity for the Polish economy. ◾ strengthening analytical knowledge and social awareness of the importance for Poland of the opportunities presented to us by the non-European world, particularly in the Asian and African directions. ◾ in relations with the non-European world, Poland's foreign policy will support the economic, tourist and cultural activities of Polish citizens and the entities they create, including by adjusting the network of Poland's foreign representations to current needs. ◾To pursue a policy of supplementing the needs of the domestic labor market through incentives to recruit particularly valuable workers and specia-lists from the non-European area, and target immigration for those of them who demonstrate the ability for maximum integration. 38 39 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENSDIPLOMACY IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS9. Effective diplomacy will be a key tool for achieving the above ◾ integrated and properly funded elements of Polish diplomacy support. goals of the ambitious and realistic foreign policy. We will renew diplomacy through: ◾ strengthening the systemic involvement of the prime minister in the process of strategic shaping and implementation of the country's foreign policy, including through the establishment of the Foreign and Security Policy Committee of the Council of Ministers. The coordinating role of the foreign minister in the pla-ting and implementation of foreign and European policy will be clarified and strengthened. ◾ Reversing the process of substantive and intellectual degradation of Foreign Ministry cadres during the PiS government. ◾ a new law on the Foreign Service, strengthening the professionalism, apolitics, professional development and security of members of this formation and improving the conditions of their service. 40 41 STRONG POLAND, RENEWED WESTOhe recently celebrated centenary of Polish independenceallowed to look at the history of the state and society with pride flowing from national achievements and the ability to survive. The conclusions collected make us look to the future with realism and ambition, advancing the state towards the realization of its interests in the service of the nation. The foreign policy of the Civic Platform will effectively This purpose was served. 42 Copyright by Civic Platform Warsaw 2019 ISBN 978-83-63874-72-8 CIVIC COALITION PROGRAM Platform .Modern ü "oLSKA Oby--atelska civic coalition Your Poland CIVIC COALITION PROGRAM | Table of contents 2 Table of contents A BETTER POLAND FOR ALL...................................................................................3 1. POLAND DEMOCRACY. FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY FOR ALL ...........................9 2. HEALTH POLAND. EUROPEAN HEALTH CARE .....................................................47 3. PROSPEROUS POLAND. HIGHER WAGES AND AN ECONOMY FOR ALL..............59 4. ECOLOGY POLAND. CLIMATE AND WATER ........................................................91 5. EDUCATION AND CULTURE POLAND.............................................................105 6. SENIOR POLAND.............................................................................................123 Publication financed by KKW Koalicja Obywatelska PO .N iPL Zieloni; ISBN 978-83-63874-73-5 © Copyright by Civic Coalition PO .N and PLP Greens Warsaw 2019 Publication available at www.koalicjaobywatelska.pl A better Poland for all |A better Poland for everyone Thirty years after the fall of communism in Poland, we find ourselves, as a civic community, on a curve. As in 1989, in the elections we will once again decide the direction Poland will take in the coming years, and even perhaps -decades. We will decide what our country's political system, the nature of social relations, the extent of real civil rights and freedoms will be, we will outline the prospects for our economy and the place of Poland In Europe. We will choose the future of the Poles. Will every vote have equal power? Will everyone be able to make a career in Poland, or only members and supporters of the ruling party? Will everyone be equal in a school, court, hospital, bank or office, or will those associated with the government prove to be more equal? Will Poland be a country to be reckoned with in the region, Europe and the world, and will we all be able to be proud of it, or will we long be left to assume the role of outsiders slandering the rest of the world for our isolation? These are just some of the choices facing Polish women and men today. This crucial moment for the fate of the country requires both great prudence and great courage. We have established a broad Civic Coalition as an agreement of people who understand the momentousness of the challenges posed to Poland and Poles by the present times. The Civic Coalition brings together people of the center, moderate right and left who are united in purpose, as it seems, the most important today for the vast majority of compatriots: a Poland that is democratic, honest, secure and firmly embedded in Europe. 3 | A better Poland for all4 We have decided to offer voters nearly a thousand diverse candidates and women candidates, guaranteeing integrity, patriotism, energy and commitment. These are people experienced in work and social activity at national, regional, local and community levels. After weeks of public discussions and meetings, we present our election program. We base the Civic Coalition's program on the conviction that money from the state budget is not the property of any party. Therefore, it cannot be used -as it is currently being used in a pathological state -for political corruption, vote buying, enfranchisement of party activists and propaganda cover-up of the scandals in which the authorities are entangled. The first and fundamental point of our program is to build a democracy for all citizens, and not -as today -a party democracy. We owe the state budget to the tax revenues paid thanks to the hard work of Polish women and men -people with different views and political sympathies. That's why we want public money to be used exclusively for state activities based on the logic of the common good. The Civic Coalition's program focuses on key state tasks. One of which is to help the most vulnerable and needy. We have prepared a precise plan for repairing the state of health care. We also have detailed proposals to protect women and children experiencing violence. We also propose an ambitious program aimed at senior citizens -people who deserve effective assistance from the Polish state because they have overworked the For the homeland all his life. We believe that it is the duty of a strong and just Republic to build an order that motivates people to learn and work and encourages them to take the business risks involved in running a flrm and hiring employees. A better Poland for all |Instead of feeding Poles the illusion that the source of prosperity for Polish families can only be social assistance, without income from their own labor, the Civic Coalition proposes solutions that will realistically raise the salaries of millions of hard-working but still underpaid Poles. Our proposals will keep women and the elderly in the labor market -not by coercion, but on a voluntary basis through guarantees of higher wages and a decent pension. We are also proposing solutions that reward honest Polish entrepreneurs, providing them with stability and transparency in the legal system in which they operate. For us, entrepreneurs are not thieves, against whom today's state launches all the services at its disposal. Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers are the real creators of the strength and wealth of our state. The Civic Coalition's economic program does them justice. All of our proposed solutions include guarantees that state aid, that is, money from taxes earned by all citizens, will actually go to those most in need. The ad hoc, yet plundering strategy of state-building pursued over the past four years clearly shows the ruling party's attitude toward the environment, Which is our common good. Forests are cut down, water levels are not taken care of, Polish cities are plagued by the worst smog in Europe. In the program we show how to change this -so that Polish nature is also enjoyed by our children and grandchildren. The Civic Coalition is also proposing an ambitious education package dedicated to Polish children and parents, for whom the current rulers have wreaked total chaos at school. Solutions that will rebuild the Polish school will raise the profile of the teaching profession, and Polish children -those from the metropolis and those from the provinces -will guarantee equality of opportunity in their start in life. 5 | A better Poland for all6 Poles, despite many difficult experiences, are proud of their achievements after 1989. Today, however, they want a better Poland -not only for themselves, but for all compatriots and generations to come. In the Civic Coalition, we know that there can be no freedom, equality and solidarity without a well-organized, honest state, in which the efficient operation of institutions, the strength of the army and an effective foreign policy are recognized. A state where norms are clear and the same for everyone, and where the media and culture unite -not rat. Today's state creates a privileged caste of ruling party people and drains society for the sake of the ruling party's retention of power. Our plan, conversely, offers a chance to build a state that is good for everyone, a state that thinks ahead -for decades to come. We propose to build a country in which people will want to live And start families our children and grandchildren. We present to you the election program of the Civic Coalition "Your Poland. 7 8 8 Polish democracy |1. POLISH DEMOCRACY FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY FOR ALL STATE OF THE LAW The Republic is a democratic state governed by the rule of law. The Constitution of the Republic sets forth the principle of the tripartite division of power and defines the fundamental rights and duties of citizens. Their violations in the last four years and obvious violations of the Basic Law imply the need to clarify the constitutional and legal responsibility of those currently holding the highest functions in the state. We believe that the disastrous legacy of the past four years in Poland is a consequence of the authorities' repeated violations of democracy, the law, including the Constitution, and the construction of a party-state. We will change this. We will ensure that the voice of citizens is heard -we will introduce Internet voting and the principle that one million collected signatures will oblige a referendum. We will restore the constitutional principle that says that everyone in Poland is equal, deserves respect, opportunities for development, necessary protection and, when necessary, care. Everyone, because we are all equal citizens of one Homeland regardless of political views, religious activity, place of residence and level of wealth. The Polish state will better support people with disabilities. 9 | Polish democracy10 We will legalize civil unions. We will restore efficiency and independence to the courts and full freedom to the media, including the public media. We will pass the Democracy Restoration Act, which will not only be a set of laws abolishing all violations of democratic state principles in laws and decisions of the past four years, but will also introduce mechanisms to strengthen the democratic state system and the tri-partite division of power adopted after 1989. We will restore the independence and independence of the Polish judiciary, starting with the Constitutional Court. We will restore the principles enshrined in the Polish Constitution for the election of judges to the National Council of the Judiciary and the original structure of the Supreme Court. We will carry out changes that will speed up the resolution of citizens' cases in the common courts and prevent any influence of politicians on decisions made in them. We will separate the function of the Prosecutor General from the Minister of Justice. We will introduce in the prosecutor's office clear criteria for promotions, competitions and tenure of office. We will repair what has been severely damaged over the past few years: the Polish military, the diplo-mation, the image and position of the Republic in the world. Polish democracy |DEMOCRACY OVER PARTY INTERESTS DEMOCRACY OVER PARTY INTERESTS • Democracy Renewal Act • Independence of the Constitutional Court, depoliticization and reform of the National Judicial Council • Legislative Code: high quality law Democracy is supposed to serve the Polish people and cannot be subordinated to party interests, because as we have seen, this leads to the destruction of constitutional order and becomes a threat to citizens' rights and freedoms. Therefore, we will adopt the Democracy Restoration Act, which will create a lasting framework for a democratic state under the rule of law. Its foundation will be independent institutions, guarantees of basic civil rights and freedoms, and impartial and credible mechanisms for checking the authorities. We will restore the position and independence of the Constitutional Court, remove judges from it-. -dubbers. We will de-partisanize the National Council of the Judiciary and take away the right of politicians to choose the judges who sit on it. We will ensure the independence of the Supreme Court. The Democracy Restoration Act will guarantee Poles their basic rights and freedoms, which are currently increasingly restricted, including full freedom of assembly or the right to privacy. 11 | Polish democracy12 We will also introduce new solutions that will strengthen the quality of democracy and rebuild Poles' trust in the state and its institutions. The consti-tutionary function of the Sejm and Senate in terms of lawmaking, democratic control and wise, substantive debate serving Poland and Poles will be restored. We will adopt a Legislative Code that will define transparent and reliable rules for legislating in Poland. We will guarantee space for public dialogue with Poles on issues fundamental to Poland. Greater involvement of non-governmental organizations in the affairs of the country and effective public scrutiny will be an additional safeguard for the stability of the rule of law and democratic institutions. Violation of the Polish Constitution is a state crime. We will introduce accountability for all those who violated the standards of the rule of law. Polish democracy |GOOD LAW, FREE COURTS GOOD LAW, FREE COURTS • An independent, apolitical and professional judiciary • Accelerate drawn-out cases and reduce fees • Prosecution decisions independent of politics: separation of the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice The effect of the changes in the judiciary that have been implemented for the past four years is not only the destruction of constitutional order, independent institutions and the rule of law, but also the deterioration of the quality of the judicial system, in particular the increase in the average waiting time for trials. Polish courts must not be a place where a politician exerts pressure on a citizen. The courts must be independent, professional and efficient. In order to strengthen the independence of the courts and eliminate pressure on judges who are unruly towards the authorities, we will eliminate the abuse of the institution of "delegation of judges" and discretionary bonuses. We will introduce a transparent system of appointing new judges of common courts. We will transfer administrative supervision of common courts to the Supreme Court. We will introduce well-thought-out solutions that will speed up judicial processes and facilitate access to the courts for all Poles. We will increase the role of electronic systems in the operation of courts, and streamline court administration. We will popularize arbitration and mediation systems, and transfer some judicial powers to other state institutions, such as civil registry offices or notaries. We will simplify and reduce court fees. We will introduce a thoughtful and well-planned reform of the Prosecutor's Office. We will finally separate the functions of the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice. We will ensure that the superior of a cor-pus of prosecutors cannot be an MP or the president of 13 | Polish democracya political party, but only an experienced prosecutor. We will introduce competitions and clear criteria for promotions, as well as tenure of office. Polish democracy |FREE MEDIA FREE MEDIA 14 • Depoliticization of public media • Abolish subscription fees and limit advertising • Regional public media returned to the regions Freedom is the most important constitutional right of every human being, the foundation of democracy and the rule of law. Freedom includes freedom of speech and the right to reliable and credible information. The public media cannot be -as they have been for the past four years -reduced to propaganda functions for the benefit of the ruling formation. Therefore, ensuring free and independent media and reliable journalism is one of the most important tasks of the Civic Coalition. We will realize the healing of public media based on three fundamental principles, stemming from the "Pact for the Media" signed by the democratic opposition in 2016. The media will be: civic, politically independent and financially stable. We will restore the National Broadcasting Council's constitutional powers and abolish the National Media Council. We will also restore the rotation of terms of office for KRRiTV members, differentiating terms into 6, 4 and 2 years. The public media must carry out its civic mission: reliable, impartial and credible. That is why we will limit the broadcasting of commercials and at the same time abolish the subscription fee. We believe that regional Poland is as important as central Poland. That's why control of regional public media centers will be exercised by provincial governments. And the vast majority of their programming will be devoted to local issues closest to the citizens. | Polish democracyTHE RIGHT OF THE POLISH PEOPLE TO DECIDE THE RIGHT OF THE POLISH PEOPLE TO DECIDE • One million signatures guarantee a referendum • Full disclosure of state decisions • Sound public consultation Democracy cannot be rationed and limited to the moment of elections. For this reason, we will introduce compulsory referendums in Poland in the event of the collection of one million submissions. We want the dialogue between Poles and the authorities to be continuous and the influence of citizens on those in power to continue. We will restore access to public data, introduce openness in personnel and financial decisions of the state administration. This will allow Poles to make decisions based on reliable knowledge. Dialogue with citizens at every level will be the basis of all decisions concerning Poland's development. We will ensure real participation by civic and social movements and organizations that care about human and civil rights. We will entrust civil society organizations with the implementation of important tasks and projects. We will restore the function of public consultation in the making of laws. 15 Polish democracy |POLICE RIGHTS POLICE RIGHTS 16 • Peaceful motherhood and a good job that can be combined with time for family and self • Right to in vitro and perinatal care • Equal pay for men and women The right of every Polish woman is peaceful motherhood, decent wages and absolute protection from violence. Women living in the harshest conditions, abused by domestic abusers, require special legal and material protection from the state. We will amend the Criminal Code so that it is the perpetrator who fears punishment, and punishment is inevitable. Responsibility for the good future of every child is not only the responsibility of parents, but also of the state. Every child has the right to material security, a dignified life and education, so we will change the law to effectively support single mothers in the fight for the maintenance payments due. It is not our agreement to hold women hostage to anyone's worldview. We will guarantee women access to free in-vitro procedure and the right to free anesthesia in childbirth if there are no medical contraindications. Exactly the same principle of maximum care for women applies to full access to prenatal testing and perinatal care. We will introduce sex education in schools and accessible and reimbursed contraception. We will restore emergency contraception available without a prescription. | Polish democracyWe will implement solutions that provide women with opportunities for personal and professional development. We will end the frequent discrimination against women in the labor market. Every woman must be guaranteed the same opportunities for professional development as a man for the same work and the same qualifications. Therefore, we will equalize the salaries of women and men with the same qualifications and working in the same positions. We will also introduce a mechanism for gender balance in managerial and executive positions in state institutions and state-owned companies. In Poland, appraisals and rewards for employees, based on their real compe-tition and work contribution, rather than gender, will become the state-dard. By combating stereotypes, being transparent about salaries, eliminating barriers to promotion and supporting women in the labor market, including in high-paying sectors, we will close the wage and pension gap between men and women. We also strongly oppose putting women in front of the most difficult alterna-tive: family or work. We will increase (as in cities where politicians from the Civic Coalition are in power) the number of places in nurseries and kindergartens, and introduce two-month paternity leave. 17 Polish democracy |INTERNET VOTING INTERNET VOTING 18 • Greater involvement of Poles in state affairs • Independence of voting • Increase attendance and counter exclusion Democratic processes, including participation in elections and referendums, must take into account the development of information and communication technologies that apply to our daily lives. Internet voting will create conditions for increased turnout, especially among young people. Participation in elections by groups at risk of exclusion, including people with disabilities, will be further facilitated. The Polish state will be modern -and, above all, citizen-friendly. | Polish democracyPUNISHMENT FOR PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLENCE • Protecting victims of violence • Full enforcement of the law • Harsh penalties for violence Impunity for violence, especially against women, is one of the worst elements of the ill-functioning state today. The current parliament was one step away from passing a law that protects perpetrators of domestic violence and intimidates its victims, discouraging them from asserting their inalienable rights. That is why we will introduce an anti-violence policy that will guarantee the full enforceability of the law while providing effective protection for victims. This will apply not only to domestic violence, but also to sexual crimes and all other manifestations of violence, including violence on the Internet or in public life. Defining who is a victim and who is an aggressor must not be tied to anyone's political views. The pursuit of the inevitability of punishment is non-negotiable here -for example, it is the perpetrator, not the victim, who should be forced to leave a shared property. 19 Polish democracy |REAL ALIMONY REAL ALIMONY 20 • State on the side of children • Alimony as inescapable as taxes • Courts interacting with other institutions A child has two parents responsible for his upbringing and maintenance. Alimony is not a gift, but an inalienable right. The person entitled to collect them should not have to enforce them on his own -he must receive them on time on account. That is why alimony will be collected just like overdue taxes. The state now focuses on collecting money from citizens, we will ensure that it begins to do this effectively for them as well. We will streamline the activities of the courts and any institutions that implement their decisions in this regard. | Polish democracyFAMILY AND WORK FAMILY AND WORK • Relieve the burden of working family members • Fostering shared responsibility for the family • Paid two-month paternity leave Both family and work are fundamental values in our society. Therefore, we will provide Polish women and men with the instruments and financial resources necessary to reconcile family life with work: nurseries, kindergartens, care homes for seniors, including day care centers, educational day care centers, and flexible working hours and arrangements. We will support the partnership model of the family and the equitable division of roles in childcare, promoting paternity leave and guaranteeing two months of paid parental leave exclusively for fathers. We want the family to have the full right to decide on its activities. 21 Polish democracy |VALUABLE VALUABLE 22 • End of gender criterion in remuneration • Helping women in their careers • Fight against bad stereotypes We will equalize the salaries of women and men with the same qualifications and working in the same positions. By combating stereotypes, making salaries transparent, eliminating barriers to promotion and supporting women in the labor market, including in high-paying sectors, we will close the wage and pension gap between men and women. We will introduce a gender balance mechanism in the management ranks of state institutions and state-owned companies. In Poland, evaluations and rewards for employees based on their real competencies, not gender, will become the standard. | Polish democracyPARTNERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS • Legal sanctioning of a permanent relationship of people close to each other • Right to inheritance and medical information • A state that protects against discrimination Although the current rulers of the state do not want to see it, civil partnerships are a fact of life in Poland. These are relationships of very close people, both hetero-and homosexual, who for various reasons do not marry. But neither gender nor other factors, especially prejudice on the part of government representatives, can deprive the partners of such a relationship of the possibility of having legal ties: inheritance, obtaining medical information about a loved one, the right to burial. No one, especially representatives of the state, can prevent people from wanting to care for each other and form a lasting relationship between two people closest to each other. 23 Polish democracy |DISABILITY SUPPORT DISABILITY SUPPORT 24 • Elimination of the pension trap • Same benefits for child and adult caregivers • Free rehabilitation holidays and free medicines A world without barriers for people with disabilities must start with the removal of legal barriers. That is why the Civic Coalition will abolish the so-called pension trap. Currently, pensions are suspended in part after an earning pensioner exceeds 70% of the national average salary, and the entire pension is suspended above 130% of the national average. Removing the restriction will preserve the pension in its full amount and increase the incentive for pensioners who can earn extra money to seek permanent employment. Thus, the financial situation of people with disabilities will definitely improve. At the same time, the Civic Coalition will implement the 2014 Constitutional Court ruling stating that caregivers of adults with disabilities should get benefits no less than caregivers of children with disabilities, since their situations and challenges are identical. A clear system of state support for non-governmental act-ive programs and projects supporting people with disabilities will be created. The state will help Poles with disabilities get out of their four walls -an easy-to-use system of information on possible financial and material assistance will be created. We also want to introduce free rehabilitation periods for people with disabilities at least once a year and access to a package of free medicines. | Polish democracyOFFICES FOR THE OFFICES FOR THE PEOPLE • A citizen is not a supplicant • Uniform public service standard • Taxes will not be wasted In direct contacts, the state administration must take care of the citizen. That is why the Civic Coalition will introduce a law on the standardization of public services provided by the central and local administrations. We will build a professional, well-paid and apolitical civil service corps. It will operate on the basis of a unified civil servant law and a unified public service standard. Citizens will clearly feel that their taxes are spent for their benefit and that the civil servant is there to help them. 25 Polish democracy |GENUINE SELF-GENUINE SELF-26 GOVERNMENT • PIT and CIT for local governments • Abolition of provincial offices in favor of local government • Strengthen civic budgets, village and residents' councils Local government is not competition for the state, but the most important representation of the will of Poles. That is why we will abolish the Provincial Offices, which today are annexes of the ruling party. We will transfer their powers to the Provincial Self-Governments. The Provincial Marshal will be the sole host of the region. We will also decentralize the state's finances, PIT and CIT taxes will remain entirely in local governments, as they are the ones who know best what the citizens' tax money should be spent on. A special Solidarity Fund will guarantee financial security for local governments with less income opportunities. Poles must be given back as much power as possible at every level, so without sweetening local governments, we will transfer some of the tasks to be carried out by village councils, neighborhood councils and NGOs. This will strengthen the subjectivity and activity of residents. We will also strengthen the role of civic budgets, legislative initiative and municipal referendum on issues most important to local communities. Also, the creation of metropolises is to be profitable for Poles. We will introduce legal and financial mechanisms to create Metropolitan Associations, respecting the decisions and sovereignty of all concerned. We will not make changes to the administrative gra-nic of municipalities or change the relationship between the city and its surroundings. | Polish democracyFREE NETWORK FREE NETWORK • Freedom measured in gigabytes • Free internet for young people • 365 gigabytes per year The #FreeNetwork program will cover more than 5 million young citizens between the ages of 11 and 24. In the 21st century, the Internet has become an integral part of our everyday life, but also the basis of civilizational development. Only a society with access to a broadband network is able to successfully compete and conquer the world. Between 2007 and 2015, Poland managed to develop the broadband inter-net very strongly. Today the Internet reaches more than 80% of households in Poland. It's time for another leap of civilization in this field. Today, freedom is measured by gigabytes that's why we offer for every student, student, but also working young people, up to the age of 24 -FREE Internet. 1 gigabyte a day. 365 gigabytes a year. That's constant access to the web. This will allow every young person to listen, read, watch, record, program and learn online for hours. We call for a more effective use of the gains of digitization not only for the convenience and economic benefits, but also for the security of male and female citizens. We will computerize police procedures and introduce the possibility of electronic notification of crime. This will make it possible to report cases without waiting for hours. 27 Polish democracy |28 wishing to visit the police station. The proposed changes take on particular importance in the context of the increase in the number of cybercrimes to which an increasing proportion of the population is falling victim (e.g., identity theft, extortion, account hacking). Within the police, we will expand the service responsible for combating cybercrime. We will also implement a special program to protect children on the Internet. | Polish democracyPOLAND OF THE POLAND OF THE YOUNG • Until the age of 25 without Social Security and National Insurance contributions • Business start-up grants • Own business instead of the Labor Office The Civic Coalition will make it easier for young people who have turned 15 to run a small business. As part of the "Six Pack for the Economy" package, we are proposing to exempt all young entrepreneurs from paying Social Security and National Insurance contributions until they turn 25. Today, you can only receive subsidies for starting a business if you are unemployed. Thus, active young people remain at a disadvantage compared to the unemployed, some of them fictitiously registering at labor offices only to be able to receive subsidies. The Civic Coalition will implement a special program of start-up grants for young people who want to start economic activities, aimed especially at start-ups. Grants will be available quickly and without unnecessary procedures. 29 Polish democracy |ORLIK 2.0 ORLIK 2.0 30 • New Eagles 2.0 program • Expansion of sports complexes • Investing in the careers of future champions We want to provide young people with space and equipment for active recreation and sports activities. That is why we are planning the Orliki 2.0 program. The Orliki construction program has provided access to playing fields for millions of young people across Poland. The Civic Coalition will inject further funds into the development of sports fields and complexes. Sports instructors must return to Orliki, and the program will be expanded to include the construction of multifunctional fields. We will invest in sports championship schools and training facilities. Local sports clubs will be given annual grants. Polish young athletes must have facilities of a high standard to improve their skills. | Polish democracySUPPORT SUPPORT • Stop depression and escalation of violence • Stop the rising number of suicides • Support by phone and Internet We will ensure the development and increase in the number of Crisis Intervention Centers. They will counter loneliness, depression, escalation of aggression and violence, and increasing self-harm among young people. We will expand opportunities to provide telephone support to young people in difficult situations. We also want to promote online support channels -contact with psychologists and counselors via instant messaging and SMS. 31 Polish democracy |DIGNITY OF THE DIGNITY OF THE 32 • Promotion a result of skills • Strengthening operational troops • Pensions and housing rights unchanged We will rebuild the strong position of the officer and soldier of the professional army. Service in the army must run on the principles of transparency and stability, promotion -based on skills, not political influence. We will restore personnel and equipment priority to the professional army, while the Territorial Defense units will be integrated into the operational army as part of the reserve system. The existing rules regarding pensions, severance pay and the provision of housing for soldiers will remain intact. The army deserves respect and recognition. | Polish democracyMODERN ARMY MODERN ARMY • Missile and air defense • Development of information systems • Greater mobility of troops The four-year backlog in the modernization of the Polish Army will be made up. We will restore the priority of missile and air defense, ensuring the mobility of troops and developing information systems. The deployment and equipping of military units will be organized to enhance Poland's defense capabilities, rather than the realization of ad hoc propaganda goals. 33 Polish democracy |MILITARY THAT OPERATES MILITARY THAT OPERATES 34 • We will recreate the capabilities of Polish divisions • We will rebuild the navy • We will restore care for veterans We will restore the command of the 13th Air Assault Squadron in Elblag, which was abolished by the current government. We will restore the remaining divisions to their previous capabilities. The new 18th Zme-chanized Division in Siedlce will be given a viable program to obtain cadres and equipment. We will present a program for rebuilding the Navy to ensure the protection of Poland's interests in the Baltic. We will increase the state's care for veterans in accordance with the law on the military service of professional soldiers, adopted in 2011, and based on the Veteran Center, which has been operating since 2014. Veteran's Center. | Polish democracyA STRONG DEFENSE INDUSTRY A STRONG DEFENSE INDUSTRY • Polish defense industry the strength of the army • Offset a condition for foreign contracts • Our industry powered by the European Defense Fund We regard the Polish defense industry as one of the pillars of the country's military capabilities. Procurement for the Polish Army must provide a guarantee of its development based on modern technologies. Foreign contracts, so-called offsets or other forms of cooperation, will be implemented with significant participation of the Polish defense industry in leading and innovative projects. The Polish defense industry, both state and private, will be included in joint projects of the European Defense Fund. 35 Polish democracy |MORE NATO MORE NATO 36 • Anti-missile base in Redzikowo • Poland's stronger position in the region • Our role in NATO corresponding to our role in the EU In addition to its own defense capabilities, NATO membership is crucial to Poland's security. The Civic Coalition is in favor of strengthening and expanding the presence of US and NATO troops on Polish territory. We attach particular importance to completing the cooperation undertaken by the PO-PSL government in the construction of the US and NATO anti-missile base in Redzikowo, the construction of the host country's infrastructure and the allies' heavy equipment depots. In the political dimension, allied cooperation must strengthen Poland's regional role. Agreements such as the Weimar Triangle, the Visegrad Group and the Bucharest Format are of particular importance here. We will support any form of cooperation within the EU that, in cohesion with NATO, will develop the defense capabilities of member states. This particularly applies to EU military missions, European Defense Fund projects and the European Defense Agency. | Polish democracyHOMELAND SECURITY HOMELAND SECURITY • Full right to security of assembly • Zero tolerance for hate speech • Police to guard security The right to assemble, the right to express one's beliefs, and the right to security are inalienable rights of every Pole. We will ensure the safety of participants in public assemblies and sports events. There will be an end to the indulgence of aggressive behavior, violence and hate speech, including on the Web. A depoliticized prosecutor's office will effectively prosecute perpetrators of hate crimes, people who disrupt mass events. We oppose placing responsibility for demonstrations and mass events on local governments. It is the police who will be responsible for the protection and security of peacefully demonstrating citizens. 37 Polish democracy |PRIVATE SECRETS PRIVATE SECRETS 38 • Repeal of laws that harm privacy • Protection of journalistic confidentiality • Protection of secrecy in the public trust professions We will protect the privacy and secrecy of citizens' and citizens' correspondence. We will repeal those provisions of the "surveillance" and "anti-terrorism" laws that may violate human rights and civil liberties. They were adopted in defiance of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. We will restore the law guaranteeing effective protection of journalistic secrecy and prevent unwarranted interference by the secret services in the work of journalists. Similarly, the rights to protect professional secrecy of other professions of public trust will be restored. | Polish democracyPROFESSIONAL POLICE PROFESSIONAL POLICE • Tenure of positions • Free from political pressure • Availability of promotions and training We will restore the apolitical nature of the police. We will introduce tenure in leadership positions in the police, the National Fire Service, the Border Guard and the State Protection Service. This will guarantee that command staff perform their duties without political pressure. We will reform the system of police promotions and training. Police officers who risk their lives in the service of citizens must have satisfaction from their work. 39 Polish democracy |INFLUENCE ON THE INFLUENCE ON THE 40 • Crime map as public standard • Professional database of found things • Certainty that the purchase did not come from theft We will ensure transparency in police work by making the map of crimes and misdemeanors public and providing access to the lost property database. Each of us has the right to know what the actual level of security is, such as where we live, work or on the route our children take to school. Making this information public will make it possible to actually hold the police accountable for the tasks they perform, and will make it easier for local governments to work together to improve security. The map will also help public institutions to coordinate security measures. By making the lost property database public, citizens will be assured that the items they buy are not stolen. This will improve the efficiency of recovering stolen goods. | Polish democracySPECS SERVICES UNDER SPECS SERVICES UNDER SURVEILLANCE • Reliable audit of special services • Abolition of the ineffective CBA • Police as a whip for corruption Heads of the services will be appointed on the basis of criteria of experience, qualifications and party independence. We will conduct an audit of personnel and organizational procedures to enable the appointment of only experienced service officers to senior management positions. We will strengthen civilian and parliamentary control over the special services. The pathologies of the last four years of the services will be curbed and punished. We will abolish the Central Anti-Corruption Bureau, which does little to combat bribery and more to settle party and private scores. The main role in fighting corruption will be taken over by a strengthened police force, which conducts several times more anti-corruption investigations than the CBA. 41 Polish democracy |MODERN GUARD MODERN GUARD 42 • TSOs with Civil Defense tasks. • A definite upgrade • Greater competence A huge role in providing security and assistance to citizens in emergency situations is played by the Volunteer Fire Service. Therefore, we will create a program to financially support the modernization and retrofitting of TSO headquarters. We want to make them local activity centers for young people. The program will include, among other things, modernization of buildings or purchase of equipment to support the development of physical activity. We will prepare Volunteer Fire Departments to perform Civil Defense tasks in the municipality. We will transfer to volunteer firefighters the powers of Civil Defense services in emergency situations. Every citizen will be able to count on immediate assistance to protect their possessions from destruction. With government funds, we will create a network of emergency warehouses equipped with, among other things, generators or materials necessary to repair broken roofs. | Polish democracyPOLAND STRONG IN POLAND STRONG IN THE EU • Recovering 100 billion zlotys for Poland • Pragmatic policy of our country • Rebuilding cooperation with Germany and France We will break the ineffectiveness and passivity of the Law and Justice party in the work of the European Union and the relegation of Poland to the EU's second league. We will do everything to ensure that the European Union budget for 2021--2027 is clearly more favorable for our country than the current proposal, which assumes 100 billion zlotys less than in the 2014-2020 budget. We will obtain for Poland the position of a true co-leader of the EU, from which the interests of Poland and Poles can be effectively taken care of, and alliances can be made on our own and common issues. We will ensure that the Union maximally supports Poles in facing the challenges of the 21st century. We will adhere to the principle of building variable coalitions within the EU for the realization of Poland's national interests. We will not be guided, as the current rulers of Poland are doing, by ideological phobias and seeking support for the destruction of the rule of law in our country. We will return to close cooperation among the EU's largest countries, including Germany and France in particular, and we will become a worthy representative and valued ally for the countries of the region. As a result, we will be a natural link between the largest and smaller countries, Western and Central Europe, the Baltic and the Danube. 43 Polish democracy || Polish democracyEUROPEAN BENEFITS EUROPEAN BENEFITS 44 • EU support to fight smog • EU support for health care • Roads and railroads with EU money The Civic Coalition will lead to obtaining support from the European Union budget for the production of safe, cheap and cleaner energy, for programs to fight smog in Poland, and for public transportation, especially railroads. With this, we will complete the construction of local roads and highways. We will fight for funds and bring about EU decisions supporting Polish public services, above all health care (including a European program to fight cancer), education and higher education. We want Poles to be able to build their businesses on a global scale. We will create a coherent system of support for Polish economic interests and the interests of Polish businesses abroad. We will increase real diplomatic assistance to the Polish economy, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. We will effectively promote Polish exports and foreign investments. Professional economic diplomacy means a staff-and financially-strengthened Polish Investment and Trade Agency, also linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and supported by diplomatic missions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be advised in the promotion of the economy by a Gospo-dic Consultative Forum composed of representatives of Polish companies. Polish democracy |SAFE POLAND SAFE POLAND • Combining the benefits of alliances with the US and Europe • Use of the European Defense Fund • Poland's active eastern policy Through professional foreign policy and diplomacy, we will counter the divisions between the US and European allies. We will strengthen NATO and Poland's alliance position and increase the resilience of the Polish state and the Western community against external infiltration, intelligence and propaganda operations. We will base relations with the US on partnership principles, because America does not expect servility, but professionalism. We will again be active in European defense policy. The European Defense Fund is an opportunity for the Polish defense industry. We will restore Poland's active policy in the East, especially towards Ukraine. 45 | Polish democracyRELIABLE POLAND RELIABLE POLAND 46 • Poland, which again inspires admiration and respect • Supporting Polish ventures around the world • Promotion of Poland, not power abroad The image of Poland created by the current government as an aggressive and unreliable country should be thoroughly changed as soon as possible. We will restore the image of Poles as a community of people proud of their history and achievements, while working closely with others. We will de-partisanize, streamline and simplify the system of promoting Poland, today carried out in a manner detrimental to citizens and the country's reputation by, among others, the Polish National Foundation. We will reform the Adam Mickiewicz Institute and tie it into a global network of Polish foreign missions. Health Poland |.2. HEALTH POLAND EUROPEAN HEALTH CARE • Maximum 21 days to a specialist • Maximum 60 minutes in the ED • Free IVF and anesthesia at birth Poland's health service is sick. An absurd NFZ flat-rate system torpedoing effective and prompt treatment, too few doctors, duplicative offerings from hospitals struggling to survive, specialists whose hands are tied by bureaucracy, and sick Poles forced to storm EDs. Finally: the lack of a viable drug policy of making stockpiles and becoming independent of foreign drug supplies in favor of domestic manufacturers. We need to heal health care before it stops healing patients. Public spending on health care in Poland currently amounts to 4.7% of GDP. The Civic Coalition wants it to be 6% of GDP -in fact, not just on paper. 47 | Health PolandMAXIMUM 21 DAYS TO A SPECIALIST MAXIMUM 21 DAYS TO A SPECIALIST 48 • Freeing doctors from the bureaucracy that takes up 80% of their time • Appointment of physician assistants and launch of such courses at universities • Investing in hospital outpatient clinics by eliminating absurdities in the National Health Service Extensive bureaucracy currently leaves Polish doctors only 20% of the time to properly treat a patient. The proportions should be reversed. There are enough people in the health care system, including medical students, who can ease the burden on doctors so that they can see many more patients and focus on their diagnosis and treatment. The Civic Coalition also wants to allocate adequate resources to invest in outpatient treatment. Outpatient clinics are places where patients should find specialist help -the condition is to stop the financial chicanery on the part of the National Health Service towards outpatient clinics. Today, in order not to get into debt, a hospital has to admit a patient to a ward for 72 hours, even though it could help him during a single day at an outpatient clinic. Health Poland |.SOR CARE IN ONE HOUR SOR CARE IN ONE HOUR • Complete reinstatement of night and holiday on-call OPD • Elimination of financial harassment of EDs by the National Health Service • ED patient with quick knowledge of what kind of help he will get At night and on holidays, a patient now usually has only one address to go to for help the Hospital Emergency Department. This applies both to a person after an accident and one with a headache. The Civic Coalition wants Primary Health Care to have the conditions to resume Christmas and night duty on a large scale, relieving and reducing queues in EDs. Relieving the burden on EDs will save the health and lives of seriously ill patients, and patients with non-life-threatening ailments will not have to wait many hours. We will lead to an ED patient receiving care within the first 60 minutes and knowing exactly what their treatment plan is. At the same time, as in the case of queues to specialists, we will do away with the absurdities in the operation of the National Health Service, which pays for hospital wards but financially harasses EDs, with the consequence that a struggling hospital cannot strengthen its emergency department today. 49 | Health PolandACCESS TO ACCESS TO 50 MEDICINES • Drug stocks as a strategic point of drug policy • Anticipate shortages and make quick emergency purchases • Fighting the drug mafia for the sake of the patient The drug crisis has shown that the state is failing to cope with securing access to medicines for Polish women and men. We have a solution for this: first, state services (the Drug Policy and Pharmacy Depart-ment of the Health Ministry, the Chief Sanitary Inspector, etc.) should anticipate drug crises in advance and prepare strategic stocks or decide on emergency purchases. Second, the Civic Coalition will issue a real -and not just on paper -war on illegal drug exports. This smuggling, worth 2 billion zlotys a year, is a blow to the budget, but above all to the health of Poles. Health Poland |.FREE RESEARCH FREE RESEARCH • Health-saving prevention • Regular health checks • A way to combat diseases of civilization Preventive health care should translate first and foremost into the health of every Pole, not just statistical values. The Civic Coalition will introduce free cross-sectional examinations for every Pole and every Polish woman who has reached the age of 50. Such examinations will be free to repeat every 5 years. Only in this way are we able to protect every citizen and every citizen from many dangerous diseases. This is especially true for the exclusion or early treatment of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, as well as degenerative diseases, osteoporosis and rheumatic diseases. 51 | Health PolandMODERN VACCINES MODERN VACCINES 52 • Equal access to vaccines for children • State-of-the-art vaccines as a standard, not a luxury • A systemic shield to protect against dangerous diseases Vaccines, regardless of their price, are not a luxury, but a necessary shield against dangerous diseases. The thickness of this shield must not depend on the thickness of the parents' port-fella. The Civic Coalition will guarantee that every Polish child can be vaccinated for free with the most modern vaccines according to the best global standards. The state must actively oppose the superstitions promoted by anti-vaccine movements. It is imperative for the health and lives of all that places in nurseries, kindergartens and schools be available only to vaccinated children. Health Poland |.CANCER TREATMENT CANCER TREATMENT • Oncologist as treatment coordinator for cancer patient • Establishment of cancer treatment centers for specific organs • European level of cancer cure in 7 years The Civic Coalition will lead to a situation in which an oncologist will coordinate the terapia of a patient battling cancer from start to finish as an attending physician, rather than one of many specialists. The creation of a common standard for health care in the European Union will give us automatic funding for cancer treatment centers and cancer prevention and early detection. A few years ago we introduced the so-called fast track in cancer therapy, and now it is high time to take another decisive step forward. We want the curability of cancer in Poland to reach a level comparable to the most developed countries in Europe within 7 years at the latest. 53 | Health PolandFREE IN VITRO FREE IN VITRO 54 • A state that respects the birth of every child • Prescription for infertility independent of the whims of power • Restoring the chance to have a child to millions of Poles The government cannot be an enemy of in vitro -thereby becoming an enemy of the 1.5 million couples who have fertility problems and the 21,000 children who were born thanks to the program abandoned by those currently in power. We say clearly: in vitro will be financed from the state budget. Health Poland |.TREATMENT COORDINATOR TREATMENT COORDINATOR • Primary Health Care to help multi-track treatment • General practitioner working with specialists • Removing from Poles the obligation to coordinate treatment Who now coordinates the treatment of Polish women and men? Often they themselves. Primary Health Care should function in an efficient system, whereby the primary care physician coordinates the treatment of his patients, sending them to specialists available and known to him, and then serves as a guide for further, often multi-track, therapy. In Poland, thousands of people drive their elderly parents from specialist to specialist, summarizing the results of tests and the effects of therapy themselves. A state-supported system of cooperation between PCPs and hospitals and specialists must be established. In well-functioning health systems, the family doctor, when referring a patient to a specialist, e-mails or calls the latter, the doctors know each other and cooperate, which benefits the patient. 55 | Health PolandCOMFORT FOR DOCTORS COMFORT FOR DOCTORS 56 • Doctors who can treat and don't have to go on strike • No more "factory" of specialists for foreign countries • Local government scholarships for medical students Poland must stop being a "factory" of specialists for other countries. One-third of medical school graduates have gone abroad or are considering it. Poland cannot afford to lose professionals educated at a high cost. The work of a doctor and nurse in Poland must be attractive both financially and in terms of opportunities for further training and working with patients. The Civic Coalition wants medical students as early as their second year of study to receive special local government stipends that will ensure that when they become doctors, they will start working at a nearby hospital. Local communities can and must strive to ensure that future specialists do not leave. Health Poland |.MEDICAL ASSISTANCE IN PHARMACIES MEDICAL ASSISTANCE IN PHARMACIES • A brand new source to help patients • Equipping pharmacists with certain powers • Sanctioning the natural role of the pharmacist There is a reason why Poles have great confidence in pharmacists. Pharmacy is one of the majors at medical universities, as difficult and responsible as the medical field. For this reason, the Civic Coalition will introduce the possibility for pharmacists to provide minor medical services, such as vaccinations and injections. This will further relieve the burden on clinics and hospitals, and significantly improve the comfort of treatment for Poles. 57 | Health PolandUNION PATIENTS UNION PATIENTS 58 • The European Union's common health policy • Bringing treatment levels on par with the best in Europe • Union caring to support Polish health care The Civic Coalition wants to introduce a common European health policy. It is through this policy that the EU will have to support Polish health care in a planned way, and not on the basis of patching holes. Similar European policies exist in various fields, but not in health. The common policy is to be the basis of the European standard, which we in the Civic Coalition have been talking about for a long time. We will lead to the Polish patient becoming, also by virtue of European norms, as important to the Union as the German or French patient. Poland prosperous |3. PROSPEROUS POLAND HIGHER WAGES AND AN ECONOMY FOR ALL LOWER TAXES, HIGHER PAY • 600 zloty, because work pays • Lower Social Security premiums for small entrepreneurs • PIT exemption of a pension that is a salary supplement • Scholarships for upgrading skills, because learning pays off The living comfort of Polish women and men depends on the abundance of their wallets, which is still far from the European standard. There is no other way to permanently -it is worth emphasizing again -permanently equalize wages in Poland and Europe than through investment and innovation by the companies that employ us. For this, companies need stability and a predictable government. The current one, at odds with Europe, is closing the way to development and decent wages for Poles. Thanks to the "Lower Taxes, Higher Pay" program, salaries of lower earners will increase by up to 47%, or nearly half! 59 | Poland prosperousWORK PAYS OFF WORK PAYS OFF 60 • Minimum wage -automatically half the average wage • PIT and contributions to Social Security and the National Health Fund will not exceed 35%. • Income of lower earners, especially young people, higher by up to 40% Work is a value. Hard work must be respected. The "Lower Taxes, Higher Wage" program is a jump in the lowest wages by more than 600 zlotys per month. That's almost 7.5 thousand zlotys a year! The program will most benefit those who are active, working, but earning less than 4.5 thousand zlotys a month. To them will go the bonus for activity. This is an offer that will clearly benefit residents of small towns. Another group whose income "on hand" will increase significantly, by up to 40%, are young people. The "Lower taxes, higher pay" program will greatly benefit budget workers, social welfare, courts, cultural workers, teachers and doctoral students. All employees will benefit from the reduction in PIT and the contributions they pay. Today the government is taking away almost half of our salaries. In the Civic Coalition, we know how to make sure that more is left in the pockets of Poles. After the PIT cut, contributions to Social Security and the National Health Fund will not exceed 35%, but at the same time pensions and health benefits will be at a higher level. The program will also simplify the calculation of contributions and PIT -only one operation is needed. Poland prosperous |PIT revenues will be transferred in full to local governments. We want the money to serve the needs of Poles who pay taxes. Local governments will also gain the right to compete among themselves with the tax-free amount. The minimum wage will not depend on the whims of the government. It will rise automatically and will be half the average wage in the economy for the previous year. Hourly wages in other contracts will increase similarly. 61 | Poland prosperousLEARNING PAYS OFF LEARNING PAYS OFF 62 • Additional adult education • Up to three-year retraining grants • A salary from the state for the duration of the study The demand for craftsmen in services and specialists in certain occupational groups is growing year after year. In 2018, there was a shortage of more than 100 thousand people in this group, including: welders, tailors, fitters, hairdressers, bakers or confectioners. Transportation companies produce more than 6% of Poland's GDP, and there is also a shortage of 100 thousand workers in this area. The situation is similar for the nursing profession. In Poland, there are 5 nurses per 1,000 people. In Norway -17. Today the chances for retraining are mainly for the unemployed, but the stipend offered to them is less than 900 zlotys. We want to prevent anyone from falling out of the labor market just because the job does not meet their expectations. Thanks to this, up to 50,000 people a year will be able to improve their qualifications. We will introduce a program to educate working adults. It will be aimed at all those who are over 30 and would like to improve their skills. The minister in charge of the labor market will determine the list of vocational training courses covered by the subsidy. The state will pay for training that lasts from one to three years and will grant a minimum wage for qualified participants in the program. Poland prosperous |ACTIVITY PAYS OFF ACTIVITY PAYS OFF • Prioritize labor force participation and experience of the elderly • PIT exemption of a pension that is a salary supplement • Instead of unemployment benefits, high subsidy for moving to new workplace In professional work, one gains experience with age, which should be appreciated. We want retirees, if they wish, to be able to continue working, be active and serve others with their knowledge. We have already submitted a bill that will ensure that PIT will no longer be levied on pensions (after they have been unettled). This change will make it more profitable to "advise yourself" in retirement. Income from work combined with a pension will cease to be subject to a higher effective PIT tax than the work of other people. If, on the other hand, the working person does not draw a pension, his salary will be exempted from all contributions except the health contribution. In addition, the employer will also be exempt from the contribution, provided that half of the savings goes to the employee. The salary of such an employee will thus increase by up to 47%! Long seniority will be rewarded with a so-called pension bonus. Polish women and men will become co-owners of state-owned companies. Their pension accounts will be credited 63 | Poland prosperous64 share packages. Anyone who works 40 years will receive a package of shares worth 10 thousand zlotys. After 50 years of work, the value of the package will increase to 20 thousand zlotys. The funds will become their private property. No one in the labor market will be condemned to unemployment. If the dream job is found elsewhere in Poland, the state will pay for the move for the whole family, depending on the age of the person looking for a new job. Today, this entitlement applies only to those under 30. The elderly are condemned to unemployment where they live with no chance of a fresh start. Poland prosperous |WORKING ON YOUR OWN PAYS WORKING ON YOUR OWN PAYS OFF • Labor cost reduction for the smallest companies • Reduction in Social Security contributions for the self-employed • Exemption from contributions for young people setting up businesses There are currently about 2 million companies in Poland. The overwhelming majority are small pre-entrepreneurs. In total, about 4 million Poles work in microenterprises. Poland will be among the 20 most entrepreneurship-friendly countries in the world. Self-employment should be a choice, not a compulsion. We will support companies that grow faster than the economy -whether they are small, medium or large. Thanks to our program, including the reduction of PIT and Social Security contributions, the salaries of employees, especially of smaller companies, will increase, although the employer will not have to contribute to it. Today the state takes almost half of the income, after the changes it will be no more than 35%. In addition, employees whose salary does not exceed 4.5 thousand zlotys will get a bonus from the budget for activity. All in all, thanks to the reduction of PIT and Social Security contributions, as well as the bonus, the lowest paid employees will start to get as much on hand as they see on the belt. Gross will become net! The proposed changes also mean savings in accounting. A single tax and contribution transfer on the company's entire payroll fund will suffice, instead of at least 14 operations for each employee -as is currently the case. 65 | Poland prosperousINVESTING PAYS OFF INVESTING PAYS OFF 66 We will rebuild the CIT tax structure to one that is successfully operating in Estonia. Companies will pay tax on profit only when they share it with their investors. In contrast, they will not pay this tax as long as the profit remains in the company, serving its development. Poland prosperous |LOWER LOWER SOCIAL Social Security contributions will be lower. The basis for their calculation will no longer be any arbitrary forecast of average wages set by the government. The minimum wage will be used as the basis for calculating contributions. This is a fair and logical solution, which will further unify the system of social security contributions from entrepreneurs. The preferential contribution assessment base, which can be used for the first 24 months of running a business, is also set with reference to the minimum wage (at 30% of its amount). If such a solution were in place today, this relief would almost fully compensate entrepreneurs for the increase in social and health insurance premiums during the Law and Justice government. 67 | Poland prosperousALLOWANCE FOR PREGNANT ALLOWANCE FOR PREGNANT 68 WOMEN Sick pay for pregnant women will be financed immediately by the Social Security. This means that the employer will not have to pay it for the first 33 days from its own resources. As a result, the situation of women on the labor market will improve significantly. Employers will not perceive the employment of a young woman as a potential risk of financing cho-rob benefits during pregnancy and will be more willing to hire women. As a result, women will earn more and the wage gap will narrow. Poland prosperous |QUICK VAT REFUND QUICK VAT REFUND VAT refunds for honestly accounting entrepreneurs will take place more quickly and efficiently. Today, the blocking of VAT refunds often results in the loss of liquidity for companies, and can eventually lead to bankruptcy. Thanks to the solutions proposed by the Civic Coalition, if there is a need for additional verification of the payer, there will be no delay in the payment of the entire VAT refund amount. Only the portion that raises doubts with the tax office will be withheld and investigated. 69 | Poland prosperousCONTRACTS IN THE CONTRACTS IN THE 70 NETWORK Simple contracts, which also facilitate smaller companies, will be able to be concluded online. This is especially true for leasing contracts, which play an important role in financing investments by small and medium-sized companies. Poland prosperous |SIMPLE TAXES SIMPLE TAXES The current tax card rates are very complicated. The annual notice that sets them is more than 30 pages long. For example, blacksmithing services can be taxed at 12 different rates. Business rates also vary depending on the size of the locality. However, the differences are not great -usually a dozen zlotys. The Civic Coalition will radically simplify these rules. We will do away with the differentiation of rates depending on the size of the locality in which the business is conducted. Such a solution will reduce the burden on small entrepreneurs. We especially want to relieve the burden on artisans from towns with more than 5,000 residents, where today traditional professions are rapidly disappearing. Treasury officials will stop wasting time on annual preparation of tax-setting documents, and craftsmen will not have to study new rules every year. Similarly, we will simplify the contributions of the lump sum on registered income. Most of them have no practical meaning. For example, out of almost 500,000 entrepreneurs accounting for lump sums, the 10% rate covered only 226 taxpayers. 71 | Poland prosperousINFRASTRUCTURE INFRASTRUCTURE 72 • Program for construction of national roads and district transportation hubs ("hubs") At the Civic Coalition, we know that free movement and a modern road infra-structure testify to the development and advancement of the country, as well as the quality of life of citizens. The construction of transport hubs, including international ones, allows for faster economic development, increased investment and the creation of new jobs. Under the rule of the Civic Platform, there was a leap and the fastest ever development of road and railroad infra-structure. Between 2008 and 2011, we announced tenders for 1,540 kilometers, while between 2012 and 2015 we announced tenders for 2,085 kilometers of highways and expressways. After four years of the PiS government, we have a total standstill in construction. We note numerous cancellations of tenders announced, as well as cases of cancellation of contracts already being executed. In 2019, tenders for 100.3 km of roads were announced, and at the same time contracts for about 220 km were broken. As a result of this policy, we face the risk of not using EU funds for two major infrastructure programs. Poland prosperous |ROADS AND ROADS AND RAILWAYS • Restoration in full swing of national road construction program The priority of the Civic Coalition will be to restore the dynamic expansion of the road and highway network throughout Poland. This will ensure the fulfillment of the commitment made during Poland's accession to the European Union, related to closing the highway network in our country by 2030. According to assumptions still adopted by the Civic Platform government, 3,900 km of roads and 57 bypasses should be built by 2025. The implementation of the bypass construction program is all the more expected, as transit bypassing residential areas will allow better air quality in cities. Today, with Poland's smog intensity at its highest ever level, the development of bypasses for major cities is one of the most important measures dependent on government decisions. 73 | Poland prosperousHUBS HUBS 74 • 314 transportation centers by 2025. • Expansion of local connections • Development of regional railroads Many infrastructural differences need to be bridged. Especially outside large urban centers. By 2025, 314 district transportation centers should be built. These will be modern transportation hubs coordinating local road, bus and rail connections. Poland prosperous |STRATEGY FOR TRANSPORT STRATEGY FOR TRANSPORT • Diversion of heavy transport to rail • Reduction in transportation rates • Expansion of the network of transshipment terminals The new strategy for transportation calls for strengthening rail transit. The weight of goods to be transported has increased by an average of 50 million tons per year over the past decade. This creates an urgent need to pave new transportation channels to relieve the burden on Poland's highways and national roads. The solution is to shift container shipping from roads to railroads. To this end, rail access rates will be reduced. Unfortunately, today rail transport loses out to truck transport in terms of delivery time. Therefore, the next step must be a strategy to expand transshipment ter-minals, since their absence significantly prolongs the transportation of goods by rail. 75 | Poland prosperousSAFE ROADS SAFE ROADS 76 • Map of dangerous places • Strategy to build bays, safe intersections, sidewalks and bike lanes • Transparent reporting of road safety levels Poland's roads are still among the most dangerous in Europe. Many Polish women and men lose their lives or health on Polish roads. The Civic Coalition aims to create conditions that will reduce this tragic balance. Poland loses almost 50 billion zlotys annually due to road accidents. This amount includes not only the material effects of accidents, but also the cost of police, rescue and law enforcement services, as well as social insurance. The strategy for eliminating dangerous places in Poland will include reconstructing intersections, building sidewalks and bus bays, reconstructing or building left-and right-hand turns, or building bicycle lanes. Throughout Poland, the General Directorate of National Roads and Highways has located about 3,000 places where these investments will save lives. Poland prosperous |MDM MDM • One-time contribution subsidy • Program for people up to 35 years of age • Preferences for young people We will return to what has been proven, namely the Civic Platform government's "Housing for the Young" program. Thanks to it, more than 100,000 young families have moved into their own "M". Housing policy must respond to the preferences of citizens. For-this it should include a program to make it easier for them to achieve homeownership. The MdM program will target young people -those up to the age of 35, that is, the group whose housing needs are least satisfied. The age limit will not apply to families with at least three children, whose housing needs are particularly high. The program will include a one-time contribution subsidy -ranging from 10% (singles) to 30% (families with at least three children) of the replacement value of an apartment, depending on the location. Initially, the program was concerned with the purchase of apartments on the primary market, and we consider this assumption to be correct. After all, the solution to our country's housing problems is to increase the number of housing units, and the only way to do that is to build new housing. 77 | Poland prosperousAPARTMENT FOR RENT APARTMENT FOR RENT 78 • Rental housing investment subsidy program • Transfer of Treasury property to local governments • Support for funds investing in rental properties Housing policy must also address the housing market's greatest weakness, which is the inadequate market for rental housing. Less than one in twenty households in Poland rents an apartment on the private market. This separation is much lower than in Western European countries (for example, nine times lower than in Germany). The development of the rental housing market will also have a positive impact on the occupational mobility of Poles. Following the example of "schetynówki" -roads built with grants from the National Program for the Construction of Local Roads -the Civic Coalition will create a program to subsidize self-government investments in rental housing from the state budget. We will transfer to the self-governments all of the income tax revenues and properties of the State Treasury. Today these properties are in the hands of government agencies and institutions, central government, staffed with party appointees. Poland prosperous |Another necessary direction is to create incentives for corporate investment in rental housing. REITs (called real estate rental investment companies in our country) will be introduced. In exchange for tax incentives, the companies will invest in rental housing. The professionalization of the rental market will increase the security of tenants. They will not be exposed to the risk of sudden withdrawal from the arrangements of the private person renting the apartment to them. In order to accelerate these positive changes, we will make the ability to take advantage of tax preferences contingent on providing tenants with protection against the risk of rent fluctuations and the unanticipated need to leave a rental apartment. 79 | Poland prosperousA BATHROOM IN EVERY HOME A BATHROOM IN EVERY HOME 80 • Conversion of one million apartments without bathrooms • Improving housing conditions for the poorest • Cooperation with local governments -Revitalization Fund Having a bathroom in an apartment seems an obvious standard of civilization. Meanwhile, data from the Central Statistical Office shows that almost one million apartments in Poland do not have a toilet, and half a million dwellings do not have running water. Families living in such conditions need immediate support. Especially since they are usually low-income people. Together with local governments and the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the Civic Coalition will lead the creation of a Revitalization Fund to help quickly improve housing conditions for people in financial distress. Poland prosperous |STRONG AGRICULTURE, RICH STRONG AGRICULTURE, RICH COUNTRYSIDE • EUR 32 billion -new perspective for Polish countryside • Farmers' right to agricultural land • Disaster fund and small retention Over the past 30 years, the Polish countryside has undergone a process of tremendous change. Polish farmers, through hard work, have successfully built the potential of agriculture while protecting the unique heritage of the Polish countryside. Poland's membership in the European Union and the funds negotiated by the PO-PSL government: more than 30 billion euros for 2014-2020 under the Common Agricultural Policy and the Rural Development Program have made it possible to meet the most important development needs of Polish agriculture. However, new challenges are emerging, such as climate change, unfair competition and growing protectionism in trade, which Polish farmers cannot be left alone to deal with. 81 | Poland prosperousOPPORTUNITIES OF THE OPPORTUNITIES OF THE POLISH COUNTRYSIDE • 32 billion euros for Polish farmers • Distribution of EU and national funds tailored to the needs of farms • Support for small and medium-sized rural farms The most urgent challenge is to guarantee Polish farmers EU funds at least at the same level as negotiated by the PO-PSL government. Our goal is €32 billion for the Polish countryside. Today, Brussels' offer for the development of the Polish countryside is lower by as much as €5 billion. That is why it is so important that Polish farmers are represented in Brussels by a government that has already proven that it can negotiate effectively. The Civic Coalition will negotiate a thorough reform of the Common Agricultural Policy and safeguard the interests of Polish farmers. The priority is to provide greater support for small and medium-sized rural farms, including through higher direct payments per hectare. It is crucial to ensure the development not only of large industrial farms, but also of smaller family farms, organic farming and innovative farming. At least PLN 2 billion will be allocated to the Young Farmers Support Program in the form of direct payments. Poland prosperous |ROLE FOR FARMERS ROLE FOR FARMERS • The right to freely expand farms • Reform of the National Agricultural Support Center. • Creation of a strategic reserve The draconian regulations on the sale of agricultural land introduced in 2016 by the current government brought the Polish farmers and the economy sheer harm and limited the right to dispose of one's own land. According to the NIK, in 2016 the price of 1 hectare was more than 32 thousand zlotys, and in 2018 it dropped to about 26 thousand zlotys. We in the Civic Coalition consider the right of farmers to agricultural land, free circulation and free expansion of farms to be indisputable. We will therefore withdraw the unloyal, irrational and corruptive provisions restricting the turnover of agricultural land, and abolish the clerical authority of the National Agricultural Support Center. The state of land remaining in the Agricultural Property Stock of the Treasury at the end of 2018 totaled 1,368,936 hectares. A strategic reserve of land owned by the State Treasury will be created for infrastructure investments and support of small farm expansion processes. 83 | Poland prosperousDISASTER RELIEF DISASTER RELIEF 84 • Disaster Fund for Rural Areas and Agriculture. • Comprehensive program to combat the effects of drought • Small-scale retention and expansion of deep wells The newly established Rural and Agricultural Disaster Fund will bring together aid funds currently dispersed for natural disasters, but also for combating infectious diseases among livestock, including ASF. The fund will replace earmarked reserves and bring together aid funds in one place. Applications will be accepted "close to farmers" by local government institutions so that the aid can be disbursed as quickly as possible. Water retention must be increased from about 5% to at least 15%. The Oby-watel Coalition government will create a comprehensive program to combat the effects of drought. Poland prosperous |ECONOMIC SECURITY ECONOMIC SECURITY • Public debt below 30% • Strength of regulator, new tasks for NBP • "2 for 1" mandatory rule of lawmaking The last four years of government have seen a historic increase in public debt to more than one trillion zlotys. This means that every Pole has 28,000 zlotys of debt that he does not know about. Pol-ska is now the country with the most wobbly and unpredictable laws in the European Union. A record 32,000 pages of new laws and regulations were passed last year alone. Meanwhile, the economic security of Polish women and men should be based on transparent laws and stable finances, not only on a macro-, but also on a micro-economic scale. The main pillars of microeconomic security for citizens will be the "Lower Taxes, Higher Wage" program and social investment. These programs will guarantee citizens a secure income from work and retirement and broad access to social services. The Civic Coalition will introduce reasonable discipline in public finances. 85 | Poland prosperousSTABLE FINANCES STABLE FINANCES 86 • Prohibition of excessive state debt in good economic conditions • Assessment of financial stability by the National Bank of Poland • Public debt below 30% With the solutions proposed by the Civic Coalition, the public debt will fall below 30% of GDP by 2030. There will be a ban on state debt in good economic conditions. We will adopt a balance between public revenues and expenditures as a medium-term budget goal, and introduce a formula that systematically lowers prudential thresholds for public debt. The NBP will make a regular assessment of how much of the increase in public revenue comes from sealing and can be spent, and how much is the result of good times only and should be saved for worse times. The difference in the national definition of public debt from that of Eurostat will be removed. There will also be a ban on the state budget's granting of loans and credits to other units of the public finance sector for a period that extends beyond the fiscal year. Poland prosperous |REGULATOR REGULATOR STRENGTH • Irrevocability of heads of supervisory institutions and regulators • Financial supervision of the NBP • Innovation through so-called regulatory sandboxes Presidents of supervisory institutions and regulators will not be able to be dismissed during their term of office (except in a limited catalog of situations like committing a crime). Any supervision must be made independent of politicians. Responsibility for providing financial supervision will be transferred to the National Bank of Poland. The regulator will be able to authorize so-called regulatory sandboxes, or pilot programs without a strict corset of regulation. This will give it the competence to build an innovative, rather than a licensed, economy. 87 | Poland prosperousDE-PARTITIONED DE-PARTITIONED 88 COMPANIES • Departure of cadres • Register of candidates for governing bodies of state-owned companies • Participation of municipalities in the profits of small state-owned companies The de-partisanship of Treasury companies is a priority for the Civic Coalition. Therefore, the qualifications of all candidates for management and supervisory boards of Treasury companies will be checked by tendered entities specialized in personnel management. These entities will maintain a register of individuals who meet the highest professional standards. Only people from this registry will be allowed to be on the short list of candidates for boards in individual companies. Profits from small SOEs will be allocated to municipal grants for education, health and infrastructure. Poland prosperous |GOOD LAW GOOD LAW • "2 for 1" -rule of law • Elimination of the ban on trading on Sundays • Simplified system of accounting for EU projects By 2025. Poland will be among the 20 most business-friendly countries. A mandatory "2-for-1" rule will be introduced in lawmaking: the adoption of any law imposing a new bureaucratic obligation on businesses will only be possible if two existing restrictions are removed. Laws that fail to achieve their intended goals during systematic reviews will be repealed. We will eliminate the ban on trading on Sundays. At the same time, all employees, not just those employed in trade, will be guaranteed the right to two free Sundays per month. We will also repeal regulations introduced by the current government that restrict competition, including in particular the "pharmacy for the pharmacist" law or restrictions on the construction and modernization of wind farms. We will make it easier to account for projects co-financed by European Union funds. The guidelines governing them will be relaxed, especially for companies that do not have to apply the public procurement law. Validation of prices in contracts and reasonably quick settlement of tenders will become the rule. 89 | Poland prosperousTAXPAYER'S BILL OF RIGHTS TAXPAYER'S BILL OF RIGHTS 90 We will introduce a Taxpayer's Bill of Rights and taxpayer service centers to help taxpayers meet their tax obligations, of which there will be far fewer, also due to the mandatory unification of tax interpretations. Tax audits will not be a nuisance for honest taxpayers. The importance of electronic inspections over physical inspections at the taxpayer's premises will increase. We will enable entrepreneurs to check the reliability of contractors as taxpayers free of charge and automatically. Poland of ecology |4. ECOLOGY POLAND CLIMATE AND WATER • Clean air -the end of smog • Save greenery and water • Clean up Poland - no more plastic Smog kills at least 45,000 Poles every year. Drying up rivers, a growing water shortage problem, expensive heating and bureaucratic difficulties related to the development of green, healthy energy are today's Polish reality. Poland is on the verge of an environmental catastrophe. Meanwhile, the current government has led us to a situation where we could lose as much as 35 billion zlotys from EU funds to fight air pollution. According to the Civic Coalition, it is time to take decisive care of the environment. At stake are not only billions of euros, but above all the health and quality of life of Polish women and men. 91 | Poland of ecologyCLEAN AIR CLEAN AIR 92 • Free furnace replacement and lower heating costs • One million installations of private power generation by 2025. • No more coal in power generation by 2040. In Polish towns and cities, the poisonous "fossil fuels" -old, classless boilers and heating stoves -will be replaced by heat pumps and district heating. We pledge that by 2030 we will eliminate coal in home and apartment heating, by 2035 -in system heating, and by 2040 -in the entire energy sector. By 2025, 200,000 local installations will be built in the energy market, allowing companies and local governments to generate energy. Another one million such installations will be built next to homes, mainly using photovoltaic cells. It will be possible to resell surplus privately generated energy. Reinforcing the clean air policy will be the re-development of wind farms, which the current government plans to completely abolish by 2035. For the Civic Coalition, it is important that residents, not the central government, decide whether a wind farm can be built in their neighborhood. Poland of ecology |GREEN AND GREEN AND WATER • Water conservation strategy • Urban tree planting policy for urban areas • Expansion of national park areas Poland is currently one of the countries with the smallest water resources in the European Union. In managing water resources, our government will cooperate with local government, entrepreneurs and social organizations. We will subordinate activities in the structure of the government "water management" and the institution "Wody Polskie" to the Minister of Environmental Protection. We will suspend river regulation programs and use national and EU funds to support a river renaturation program in line with the Water Framework Directive. We will bring about the cessation of drainage irrigation in wetlands and order the conduct of small-scale retention in forests. We will take comprehensive measures to increase water retention in built-up areas and the economic use of rainwater and its storage. Green Poland means a healthy future for our children. The new urban policy, in place of "concreting" cities, will include a strategy to tree urban areas, but also uncultivated farmland. We will protect the wilderness instead of cutting it down. In consultation with the local community, we will establish new and expand the areas of national parks. The precious Belovezhskaya Pushcha will become a national park in its entirety. 93 | Poland of ecologyCLEAN POLAND CLEAN POLAND 94 • Universal bail and deposit system • Incentives for full elimination of plastic We need to clean up Poland. Within three years, single-use plastic should be replaced by reusable packaging. The reduction in plastic production will include all single-use items that have non-plastic counterparts. These measures will be taken in consultation with interested communities. Our long-range goal is a closed-loop economy and a policy of "zero waste." Poland of ecology |ZERO WASTE ZERO WASTE • Ban on bringing in garbage We will introduce a universal deposit system for bottles and a deposit for plastic packaging. Goods with interchangeable containers should eventually have lower prices. To reduce the use of plastic bottles, the "water for everyone" project, a system of free drinking water stations for residents, will be gradually implemented. An absolute ban on importing waste to Poland will be issued. Our country must not perish under tons of waste from all over the world. No one will, under the pretext of importing recyclables, cover Poland with waste that is a source of poisoning the area and zarze-know dangerous fires. Wild or burning landfills, as well as chemical waste imported from abroad, will no longer threaten our families. A good example of behavior that protects our environment by using reusable or biodegradable packaging will be set by public institutions. Environmental education in schools will be expanded. 95 | Poland of ecologyENERGY ENERGY 96 • Green energy for Poland • Warm home • Energy security Just a decade ago, there was less knowledge about climate risks, labor costs were lower, and Polish coal was a desirable export commodity in the world. Today, Polish mines are mining less, selling less, earning less. The current government has led to record imports of Russian coal into Poland. In 2018, it amounted to 14 milio-tons. Meanwhile, electricity prices for companies and local governments are rising. Poland's energy sector is in crisis. Poland lacks an energy strategy, and the value of the country's energy companies, despite global prosperity, has fallen by as much as 70%! This is the lowest valuation in history. Accelerating the process of repairing the energy and heating industry, supporting energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, primarily for the benefit of the consumer, but also for the climate, is guaranteed by the Civic Coalition's program. Poland of ecology |DECLARATION FOR UPPER SILESIA DECLARATION FOR UPPER SILESIA We will not close mines as long as there is coal in them and the cost of mining will allow miners and their families to maintain a decent living. We will not close coal-fired power plants as long as they are able to operate. There will come a time when the mines will run out of deposits and the power plants will prove obsolete. Therefore, the share of coal in the Polish economy will decline naturally. We will not lay off people who work in coal mines and power plants. In their place, we will finance the construction of modern, green energy sources that will create new jobs. We will implement this change systematically and rationally. We will propose a stable plan for the industrial transformation of Silesia and other coal regions, among other things, based on EU funds from the Coal Platform. It will be created jointly not only with the miners, but with all other workers in the energy industry. This is the last moment to implement a strategy for mining in Silesia. The industry, which employs more than 100,000 people, still does not know what its future will look like when natural resources run out. 97 | Poland of ecologyGREEN ENERGY GREEN ENERGY 98 • Environmentally friendly energy • 3×10 for RES • Preferential financing for green energy The global energy industry has changed more in the last five years than in the previous fifty. New environmental regulations have emerged, the cost of new green technologies has dropped significantly, and they are becoming a local source of energy. Solar energy has become up to 90% cheaper. Meanwhile, Poland has been excluded from this inevitable transformation in recent years by its governments. More than half of Poland's power plants are more than 35 years old. About 70% of coal-fired power plants will be extinguished in the next few years due to their deteriorating costs and environmental standards. To ensure that no home's electricity is disconnected, we will ensure that in the next ten years at least 1/3 of energy will come from renewable sources, i.e. from nature: wind, sun, water. All those who want to invest in an environmentally friendly, but also efficient, secure energy economy will receive state support. This applies not only to companies and local government, but also to citizens. Poland of ecology |This will create 10 GW of solar power, 10 GW of offshore energy and 10 GW from onshore wind power (3×10 for RES) by 2030. We will provide support for local RES, biomass, biogas and geothermal sources. As a result of the regulatory changes, each potential investor will be able to assess the effectiveness of the investment, taking into account the time required for its launch and the prerequisites on which the feasibility of the investment depends. We will allocate 100% of the proceeds from the sale of CO2 allowances for investment. We undertake to publish annual reports on the Polish energy transition: costs, prices, emissions, degree of energy independence. 99 | Poland of ecologyWARM WARM 100 HOUSE • 25 billion euros for a warm home • Modernization of district heating infrastructure • Reducing heating bills Poles breathe the worst air in Europe. Of the 50 most polluted cities, as many as 36 are in Poland. The main reason is coal burned in individual stoves. That's why we will modernize Poland's district heating network. By 2030, all small district heating systems in district cities will be converted to efficient and low-emission, i.e. clean heat sources in our homes. Today, as many as 80% of Poland's district heating systems are below these expectations. These measures will be complemented by the continuation of the thermal modernization program already introduced during the first period of the Civic Platform government. After 2020, we will set standards for new and old energy buildings. These changes will lead to lower heat bills in Polish homes. Large-scale energy subsidy schemes will also be removed from electricity bills. Power companies will stop draining consumers' pockets and financing projects that make no economic sense. Poland of ecology |CIVIC ENERGETICS CIVIC ENERGETICS • Eliminate energy poverty • Restoration of the system of subsidies for thermal upgrading • Energy advisor in the municipality Energy poverty affects nearly 5 million people in Poland. Most live in villages and small towns, 25% are pensioners. These figures show that a frightening number of Poles today cannot afford to heat their own homes properly and pay their energy bills. We will develop a system of subsidies for energy-excluded citizens. The fuel allowance will be modified. We will create a mechanism for preferential loans for companies and citizens willing to invest in home renewable energy sources -solar panels, home windmills and heat pumps are the future. Each of us, if we wish, will become energy independent. The state will help in the process of building a civic energy industry, not only through a system of subsidies, but also by allowing us to make money from giving back to the local grid the surplus energy that citizens will produce themselves. 101 | Poland of ecologyWATER WATER 102 • Hydrogen as the fuel of the future • An opportunity for ports and shipping • Potential for new industry: 5.5 million jobs Hydrogen is the future. It is the likely foundation of the world's energy transition. Studies show that the industry around hydrogen will create nearly 5.5 million new jobs worldwide by 2050 and revolutionize transportation. Poland could be one of the leaders in this process. Hydrogen can be produced anywhere, such as with renewable energy or waste treatment. This is an optimal solution for smaller municipalities or even farms. Poland of ecology |ENERGY SECURITY ENERGY SECURITY • Predictability of legal changes • Depoliticization of state-owned companies • Certainty of energy supply The state will guarantee predictability for entrepreneurs in the energy industry. Decisions in state-owned companies will be businesslike, not political. Today, the largest companies dependent on politicians are in a very difficult financial situation because they have been forced to implement unrealistic orders: from building the Polish electric car to the Polish National Foundation. A long-term strategy for the energy sector will allow pre-venturers to make a realistic assessment of the profitability of their investments. Energy security is a smooth policy of transition to Polish renewable energy, smart grids and energy efficiency, reducing dependence on foreign fuel and energy imports. It is also necessary to ensure the diversification of supplies, cross-border connections and energy solidarity within the European Union. We will fully integrate the Polish gas system into the European gas market by developing interconnectors on the western and southern borders and with Ukraine. At the same time, we will liberalize the storage law so that competition returns to the gas market and the market is truly liberalized. 103 | Poland of ecologyANIMAL RIGHTS ANIMAL RIGHTS 104 • End of fur farming • No more animal suffering in circuses Industrial animal husbandry is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions. Its reduction is necessary for climatic, health and ethical reasons. Therefore, we will bring about the passage of a law leading to the closure of mink, fox and other animals raised for fur. We will also ban the use of animals in circuses and end the cruel hunting of birds. Poland of education and culture |5. POLAND EDUCATION AND CULTUR The foundation of a free and strong society that adheres to democratic principles will always be education, including civic education and, as a result, free education. Our program of a civic Poland begins with building a free and democratic school. To make it truly free, we will eliminate any possibility of politicians' influence on school programs. We will establish a new, term-limited National Education Commission, with experts to prepare curricula and evaluate them. Good education means increasing opportunities for future generations. Flawed systemic solutions, created by the current government and Anna Zalewska's ministry, in more than a third of Polish schools have resulted in the deterioration of teaching conditions. Schools work from 7:15 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., and access to laboratories, common rooms and gymnasiums is particularly difficult. Instead of the promised cost-free reform, the current government is burdening local governments with the costs of implementing it: PLN 23 billion has already been allocated from local government budgets, taking this money from other areas important to local communities. The unthinking education reform has also resulted in the biggest crisis in education -a double yearbook of students graduating from junior high schools and eighth grades. 105 | Poland of education and culture106 Therefore, first of all, in cooperation with local governments, it is necessary to stabilize the situation in schools and create conditions for the development of modern education. We will not make another ill-considered revolution. We will wisely repair the damage from the previous one. We will give Polish school a new quality. Caring for a culture that is built on enduring and imperishable values consists primarily in creating space for freedom of expression and free creative ex-pression, including ensuring the right to artistic experimentation. We will free artists and their work from the visible threat of any form of censorship today: from official censorship to ideological censorship. To this end, among other things, we will limit the omnipotence of the Ministry and the Minister of Culture over art institutions and cultural events. Poland of education and culture |STABLE SCHOOL STABLE SCHOOL • School of practical science • No satchel and a hot meal • Decent pay for teachers We propose a school in which the School Council and the School's General Assembly will make decisions developed through open dialogue and involvement of all parties: students, teachers, parents, local government officials, the socio-economic environment. The school will focus on practical learning. It will be friendly, interesting and safe. The school is expected to give children the opportunity to identify and develop their talents, to catch up with productive help from teachers. The school will provide a full educational service, providing: learning, education, care, nutrition, sports, development of talents and interests, equalization of opportunities. The school will be available to any student in need for 8-9 hours a day. In addition to compulsory classes (in class teams), students will participate in group activities to develop abilities, correct deficiencies, correct dysfunctions, and prepare for activity in cultural and social life. A long stay at the school obliges to eat a hot meal together, which is an opportunity to develop habits of healthy eating, fighting obesity and other modern dietary diseases. A good school does not require children to carry backpacks. A schoolbag should not weigh more than 10% of a child's weight. Textbooks should be replaced with modern educational materials, and tutoring and homework should be replaced with group work at school. 107 | Poland of education and culturePROUD TEACHER PROUD TEACHER 108 Teachers will be given promised raises and more autonomy. They should be paid separately for providing work during overtime hours and on holidays. We will leave the existing salary scale. In addition, we will offer real opportunities for decent wages. Longer active working hours at the school will generate more hours of caring, tutoring and educational activities for willing educators. This will create opportunities to hire new teachers or an additional contract for those already working. Each hour will be decently compensated. It will raise real wages for existing teachers and open schools to new employees. We will ensure teacher autonomy -the implementation of the core curriculum cannot take up 100% of lesson time. There must be time for the teacher's and young people's own ideas. Poland of education and culture |COMPETENCY COMPETENCY LEARNING Content will be added to the core curriculum, which is becoming crucial in life, but is difficult to classify into one academic field, such as civic, economic and business, health, environmental competencies. Children and adolescents from the earliest years should learn teamwork, use of project work skills, problem solving in areas that are not well recognized, self-improvement and the ability to organize work independently. The school will emphasize learning skills and the ability to innovate (creativity and innovation, critical thinking and problem solving, communication and collaboration), digital competencies in the broadest sense (information analysis, media, technology literacy, cyber security), competencies important in life and careers (flexibility, adaptability, initiative and self-organization, social and intercultural skills, work ethos, ability to lead). 109 | Poland of education and cultureEDUCATION IN LOCAL EDUCATION IN LOCAL 110 GOVERNMENTS We will allow local governments to have a flexible school structure, to divide an eight-year elementary school into different segments. An example would be an elementary school in a smaller locality with grades 1-3 close to the student, and in a larger locality a collective school with grades 1-8, which must meet certain premises and staffing conditions. Such a solution will level the playing field between children from rural areas and larger centers, and make full use of the premises base possessed by the municipality. Although we are proposing the principle of freedom here, we will introduce appropriate criteria, such as having a nature laboratory or a gymnasium. In this way, the local government will create school structures designed to meet the needs of the local community. Poland of education and culture |BETTER VOCATIONAL EDUCATION BETTER VOCATIONAL EDUCATION • Career counseling in schools • Schools of professionals • Apprenticeships in cooperation with entrepreneurs Young people very often feel lost when choosing a school, field of study or future profession. We will change this state of affairs by implementing career orientation programs and career counseling. We will introduce career counselors into schools. Each student will have the right to individual career counseling, and in the seventh grade of primary school and in the third grade of secondary school, he or she will receive a voluntary individual vocational aptitude report, which can become an aid to him or her and his or her parents in choosing a further educational path. These reports will also take into account the current analysis of the labor market and salaries in specific professions. We will implement a strategy to rebuild the prestige of technical schools, breaking the stereotype of vocational school as inferior to high school. Students of technical schools should learn practice from the best, have access to a very good staff of methodologists, facilities to establish close cooperation with employers and business. Schools need to doin-vest and equip workshops with the latest generation of technical and technological infrastructure, including digital. This will be a school of true professionals. 111 | Poland of education and cultureNATIONAL EDUCATION NATIONAL EDUCATION COMMISSION • No more politicians writing core curriculum • Dialogue with school principals, local governments and professional organizations • Expert work on curriculum plan We will put an end to the writing of core curricula by politicians. Schools need stability, continuity and security. Today, only 20% of the 1,700 authors of core curricula are recommended by professional institutions. Successive terms of parliament cannot overturn programs under the influence of the views of the ruling majority. We will therefore delegate the power to build and evaluate the education system to a professional and transparent National Education Commission -autonomous and politically independent. The goal of the commission is to build a modern system capable of long-term planning and resistant to political pressure. The KEN will include representatives of teachers and teachers' unions, school principals, local governments, employers' organizations and the business world, parents, science and higher education, educational insti-tutions and education-related NGOs. Poland of education and culture |FINANCIAL INCENTIVES FINANCIAL INCENTIVES In the Civic Coalition's program, we envision building an educational bonus system for achievement, good performance and high quality. We will introduce educational scholarships for students linked to school performance. We will introduce educational bonuses for teachers linked to the performance of their students. We will offer local governments a program of co-financing (zloty to zloty) of the expansion of the school base in places where, due to the Law and Justice government's deformation, double-shifting has returned. Light construction modules will quickly improve the housing situation and create conditions for normal work. 113 | Poland of education and cultureDEVELOPMENT THROUGH DEVELOPMENT THROUGH 114 CULTURE • Culture in alliance with science • Affordable access to culture • Investment in reading We will integrate the activities of the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage to improve the quality of education and educate for conscious participation in culture. We will make it easier for children and young people to access cultural events -a ticket to a play, exhibition or concert at the philharmonic hall will be an authorization for free travel on public transportation. We will expand the scholarship system for artistically talented young people. We will also rebuild reading, including by introducing an hour of reading aloud in schools, renewing library collections and opening libraries on Saturdays. We will offer an annual voucher for books for children and young people from ages 3 to 21 and support for bookstores in small towns. We will also make it mandatory for library outlets to operate in shopping malls and newly built housing developments. Poland of education and culture |CREATIVE FREEDOM CREATIVE FREEDOM • No more harassment of unruly artists • Fair rules when staffing cultural institutions • Scholarship system for artists We will ensure freedom of all cultural activity and full freedom of artistic expression and creative experimentation. We will introduce expert rules for competitions both in selecting the authorities of cultural institutions and in allocating funds from the central budget or aid funds. We will introduce an analogous procedure for institutions and events financed by local governments. We will limit the omnipotence of the officials of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage by obliging all local governments and the Ministry to create at least three-year budget projects for all cultural institutions. We will restore 50% deductible costs for artists. We will launch a richer scholarship system for them, including year-round scholarship residencies and six-month residency scholarships for writers, poets, composers. 115 | Poland of education and cultureFREEDOM OF FREEDOM OF 116 CULTURE • Renewable contracts and grants • Support for institutions abroad • Locally shared funds We will equalize the legal and financial possibilities of public cultural institutions, the third sector and private companies. We will guarantee non-governmental organizations and private individuals with real achievements in the field of cultural dissemination a verifiable system of renewable contracts and grants. We will also increase financial support for the preservation of historical monuments, including those in the former territories of the Republic today outside the country's borders. We will rebuild Polish cultural diplomacy. We will con-sequentially popularize Polish cultural heritage and contemporary artistic creation outside Poland in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will restore the significance of the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, including through its contribution to the op-ported process of restitution of Polish cultural diplomacy. In addition, we will transfer into the hands of local operators, such as local government cultural institutions selected in a competition, some of the funds for culture previously distributed centrally. Poland of education and culture |CULTURAL LOCAL CULTURAL LOCAL GOVERNMENTS • Non-governmental cultural management • Return of the "Very Young Culture" program • Culture closer to Poles We will strengthen the cooperation of local governments with NGOs in creating cultural events. We will expand their competence in managing cultural institutions. We will increase the possibility of organizing ventures in conjunction with local and regional art institutions by co-financing so-called cultural weekends for regional residents and book fairs in rural areas. We will bring back the "Very Young Culture" program, which is working very well in local communities far from large agglomerations. 117 | Poland of education and cultureCOLLEGE INTERNSHIPS COLLEGE INTERNSHIPS 118 • Graduates ready for practical challenges • 3 days of theory and 2 days of college practice • Faster scientific careers We will increase the importance of internships and apprenticeships at the university level, so that their graduates will be fully ready for work after graduation. Learning in the final semesters will be carried out in the system of study and professional internships in a 3+2 model (3 days of study, 2 days of professional practice). We will create a new model for the development of scientific talent, our goal will be faster independence of young scientists, transparency of proce-dures and a faster habilitation path, habilitation for grants, and much greater availability of "post-docs" of an international nature Poland of education and culture |WORLD UNIVERSITIES WORLD UNIVERSITIES • Support for the university's international position • Full transparency of grant systems • Increase funding for research and development We will support universities with aspirations. We want at least one Polish university to enter the top 100 universities in the world, and we want universities to be able to be local leaders in development. We will promote the merging of universities and faculties, stimulate high quality research and didactics. We will rely on transparent and substantive competitions for scientific and teaching positions at public and non-public universities. Personnel decisions will be open and linked to professional promotion. We will ensure full transparency in grant decisions. We will also increase spending on research and development to 1% of GDP from public funds within 8 years. 119 | Poland of education and cultureDIGITIZATION IN DIGITIZATION IN 120 SCIENCE • Full contact with the world • European labor standard • Use of science in the economy By supporting new programs, we will guarantee the development of knowledge and research that is not necessary for real participation in the single digital market. We will enable the integration of Polish research teams with those of EU countries in the area of new technologies and ICT. We will increase the participation of Polish research teams with their own scientific thought in European bodies involved in the creation, development, regulation and management of the European Digital Single Market. We will introduce incentives for the actual commercialization of knowledge in the economy. We will open up science by expanding access to publications and data. Poland of education and culture |PROMOTION OF PROMOTION OF SCIENCE • Learning available for life • Protecting Universities of the Third Age • Full online access to knowledge We will create tools for universities to become Centers for Lifelong, or lifelong, learning. We want them to support young student talent through academic classes in schools and university seminars for students. We are keen for universities to create and develop Universities of the Third Age. We will financially support science festivals and the establishment by universities of the Polish Open Education and Science Network, giving online access to knowledge and learning opportunities for all generations, in all disciplines, along with the possibility of obtaining professional certifications. 121 | Poland of education and cultureCOST-EFFECTIVE COST-EFFECTIVE 122 LEARNING • Conditions for scientific careers in Poland • Better college scholarship system • Promotion of the most talented scientists We cannot allow Poland to lose its most talented university employees, for this reason we will ensure decent pay and good conditions for Polish scientists to carry out their research. From the very first year of study, a young person has the right to have his or her abilities and work recognized, so at least 10-15% of those entering university with the best enrollment results will receive a scholarship for academic performance. Poland of the senior citizen |6. POLAND SENIORS • Thirteen perpetual and every year • Pension bonus • Care check every month The crux of the Civic Coalition's program is to build a better, more efficient state that can withstand the challenges of the 21st century and serve our children well. But the measure of the quality of any state is how it takes care of seniors and their loved ones. We are thinking realistically about how to solve, for example, the problem of labor force participation of Poles who take care of their parents. Hence the project of special checks, vacations and making senior care a professional and certified profession. Seniors have the right to enjoy life, and state structures should facilitate their joy. Our program for the oldest Poles is called "Senior Poland." It is not just a slogan, but a guarantee that seniors will not be condemned to exclusion. 123 | Poland of seniorsTHIRTEENTH PENSION EVERY YEAR THIRTEENTH PENSION EVERY YEAR 124 • Permanent guarantee of extra money • Aid independent of the whims of power • Thirteen the higher, the longer the work He who is not a senior citizen with a low pension does not know what it means when he is deluded into thinking that he has a thirteenth pension, but it is not guaranteed permanently. The thirteenth pension for seniors cannot be dependent on the whims of the authorities, nor can it be a tool to pressure seniors to vote for this or that party, otherwise they won't get the money they are due. For this, the Civic Coalition is going into the elections with a simple commitment: the thirteenth pension will become a guaranteed benefit -to make seniors feel more secure. Besides, this benefit, too, will become an incentive for those who have not yet retired to work longer. The thirteenth pension will be higher the longer a person has remained active, even if his or her work has been low-paid. Poland of the senior citizen |RETIREMENT BONUS RETIREMENT BONUS • Action packages for seniors • From 10 to 20 thousand zlotys bonus • Unconditional guarantee Seniors will be rewarded for their long years of work with a so-called pension bonus. Polish women and men will become co-owners of state-owned companies. Their retirement accounts will be credited with blocks of shares. Anyone who works 40 years will receive a package of shares worth 10 thousand zlotys. After 50 years of work, the value of the package will increase to 20 thousand zlotys. The funds will become their private property. 125 | Poland of seniorsWAITING FOR WAITING FOR 126 CARE • PLN 1,000 for care of a dependent person • Monthly financial support • No dilemma: care or work In Poland, too many people face a tragic dilemma: work or caring for their parents. The Civic Coalition wants the family to be together. Retirement homes have a raison d'etre, but they should only be a solution when there is no other way out. Such an option is the check we are proposing, which will fund care for seniors. The care checks will be for an amount up to half of the lowest salary, or more than PLN 1,000 in the case of a person with the greatest degree of dependency. This amount will increase with the lowest salary. The check will be paid monthly when the loved one is economically active. This will allow her to continue working. If the senior does not have a loved one, he will also receive a check. And when the loved one is not working, then the provisions of the guardian's allowance under another law on family benefits will apply to him. Poland of the senior citizen |DEPENDENCE DEPENDENCE • Introducing the category of dependency • Rehabilitation and day care centers for the elderly • A system of jurisprudence to effectively help Currently, we are able to determine, for example, the degree of disability, but in addition to disability, there is dependency, for example, due to a number of neurological diseases or simply because the senior lacks the strength to perform daily activities. The Civic Coalition wants to introduce clear rules for determining the degree of dependency in Poland, so that the state finally begins to take co-responsibility for the real pro-blems of the elderly and begins to finance assistance to seniors and their families. The system of care checks does not overlook the fact that dependency, while not a disability, can disable one's life, and therefore requires greater financial investment on the part of the senior and his or her loved ones to prevent this from happening. This is part of our family-friendly policy. Also very important in our program is the creation of a network of rehabilitation centers for seniors, as well as day-care and residential homes for the elderly. Old age must not exclude and prevent contact with the world. 127 | Poland of seniorsSENIOR CITIZEN SENIOR CITIZEN ASSISTANTS • Professional, certified caregivers • No more uncertainty about who will help and how • State subsidy system When looking for a person to care for a senior citizen, Poles find themselves in a market for services whose quality they are unable to judge. Often the service is overpaid, because where fear and insecurity operate, there is a phenomenon of price-lifting, because the loved ones "have no other choice." The Civic Coalition has found a solution. We will create a system of legalization, certification and training of senior citizen assistants -so that this type of work becomes a standardized service with a standardized price range. After all, a mere care check is not enough; Polish women and men must be sure that it will be monetized for a reasonable purpose: professional and reasonably priced assistance. Senior assistants will be able to be employed by both public institutions, such as social welfare centers, and private companies. A professional professional group will be created, whose level of service will be guaranteed, and the costs will be borne by the senior citizen and his relatives and subsidized by the state budget. This is a much cheaper solution than condemning economically active people to exclusion from the labor market due to the need to devote all their time to caring for their loved ones. Poland of the senior citizen |LEAVE FOR CAREGIVERS LEAVE FOR CAREGIVERS • State-funded respite leave for caregiver • Leave at work that does not come at the expense of vacation leave • Taking care of the needs of the whole family The Civic Coalition thinks about the situation of the elderly in a forward-looking, systemic way and in the context of the situation of their families. Therefore, we are advocating the introduction of two types of leave for the relatives of an elderly person. The first is a fourteen-day respite leave to gain strength during long-term care for parents, for example. It will be up to the dependent person and his or her family to decide how the care is to be provided during this time: whether it will be undertaken by a 24-hour care center or by an outreach caregiver. The cost of arranging care during respite leave for the caregiver will be borne by the state. The second type is a fourteen-day unpaid caregiving leave (or part-time work). This is a solution when suddenly something worrisome happens to an elderly loved one and time is needed to arrange care. Our proposal is designed to prevent situations in which vacation leave will be used for caregiving. 129 | Poland of seniorsTHE WRISTBAND THE WRISTBAND 130 OF LIFE • Immediate assistance in an emergency situation • Modern remote care system • A sense of security for seniors and their loved ones In the "Poland of Seniors" program, we also propose the introduction of emergency wristbands that monitor health status into widespread use. Thanks to the armbands, emergency services are notified in an emergency situation. The equipment will be subsidized at 10% of the amount of the care check. This solution relieves fear for both the senior citizen himself and his loved ones. Poland of the senior citizen |HOME SERVICES HOME SERVICES • Real help with domestic problems • "Handyman" on the phone • Transportation for people with walking problems We want to spread the excellent solutions for seniors introduced by our local government officials. In Poznań, a package of services that bring real help to seniors is doing a great job. It includes "handyman" services, i.e. help with minor repairs in apartments, a "life box", i.e. a set of information for paramedics at people living alone, which includes a questionnaire on health status, medications taken and their dosage, allergenic substances. Seniors also highly rate the "cab for seniors" program -which makes it easier for people who have trouble getting around to get to a doctor or office, for example. 131 | Poland of seniorsPOWER TO SENIORS POWER TO SENIORS 132 • Seniors deciding on their own needs • Representation of seniors with influence on state and local government • Helping seniors based on their local needs We have more than 8 million pensioners in Poland. So far, the unanswered question is why their vote only matters when elections are coming up. The Civic Coalition wants seniors to gain their rights, especially the right to have a say in their own affairs. That is why we will appoint a Government Plenipotentiary for Senior Citizens' Policy, create an inter-ministerial Senior Citizens' Policy Council and a Citizens' Parliament of Seniors, which will be the statutory representative of senior citizens. We will also strengthen and subsidize Municipal Senior Citizens' Councils, and enable the establishment of such councils at the district and provincial levels. Thanks to them, the National Senior Citizen's Card will become a real profit, and Local Senior Citizen's Offices and a hotline for seniors will help define the actual needs of seniors in the area. Many seniors want to get actively involved in life, because they adhere to the principle of "nothing about us without us." Old age should not and cannot deprive Poles of the opportunity to decide for themselves. www.koalicjaobywatelska.pl Publication financed by KKW Koalicja Obywatelska PO .N iPL Zieloni; ISBN 97883-63874-73-5 © Copyright by Civic Coalition PO .N and PLP Greens Warsaw 2019 Publication available at www.koalicjaobywatelska.pl 