ELECTIONS EUROPEAN 2019 MANIFESTO OF THE POPULAR PARTY AHEAD OF THE 2019 EUROPEAN ELECTIONS ELECTIONS EUROPEAN 2019 MANIFESTO OF THE POPULAR PARTY AHEAD OF THE 2019 EUROPEAN ELECTIONS INDEX FOCUSED ON YOUR FUTURE A European Union, but which European Union? 6 Facing common challenges together 7 1. Economic and Monetary Union and economic policy 9 2. Digital Single Market 13 3. Industrial and trade policy 17 Commercial policy 19 4. Innovation, research, SMEs and employment 21 5. Education and Culture 25 6. Climate change, environment and Energy Union 29 7. Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), rural environment and fisheries 33 Fishing 36 8. Transportation 39 9. Immigration 43 10. The Europe of Defense, anti-terrorism policy, euro warrant and recognition of criminal court judgments 47 Anti-terrorism policy 48 Euro-order and recognition of criminal court rulings 49 11. European foreign policy. Defense of Freedom and democracy abroad. Democracy and the rule of law 51 12. Gibraltar 55 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE ELECTIONS EUROPEAN 2019 The upcoming European elections are the most transcendental since Spain has been part of the European Union. The way in which we face the current problems and challenges will determine the stability and prosperity of each of the Member States and of the European Union, and its specific weight in the world. We live in the best Europe that has existed since the Second World War. A Europe that is more united than ever, innovative, competitive, committed to the environment and climate change, enjoying the best welfare state in the world, the best healthcare and education in the world. However, Europeans cannot be complacent, and we must continue to move forward, facing the many challenges facing the continent. The impoverishment of the middle class, the resurgence of nationalism, the rise of populism, Brexit, trade wars, migration crises, the digital revolution, growth and employment, energy transition, climate change, terrorism or geopolitical crises that are occurring at all borders of the European Union force us to act together and with clear determination. We must be able to take the necessary decisions in the face of these challenges, and the European Parliament will be a key institution for the next five years. The European People's Party (EPP) is the largest political group in the Parliament, the most influential and the one that holds the most positions of responsibility in all the European institutions. That is why voting for the People's Party in the next European elections is the most effective vote to ensure that Spain is decisive in European politics. Now is the time to decide if Spaniards want to be leaders or if we accept a subordinate role. The members of the Partido Popular are aware that a fundamental part of the present and future of Spain is decided in Europe. Therefore, we must play a leading role in a renewed European leadership. Faced with nationalist radicalism of all kinds, we opt for an influential Spain within a strong Europe with a vocation for international leadership. A EUROPEAN UNION, but which European Union? The answers to the challenges of our time lie in the very essence of our civilization, in respect for the person, his dignity and freedom, in democracy, the rule of law, freedom of conscience and the social market economy. Europe is much more than a political union of twenty seven or twenty eight countries. Europe is, above all, the pillar and origin of Western civilization. From the Popular Party we claim the legacy of the Western tradition and the European cultural, political, historical and religious heritage, as the foundation on which to build our political project. The European Union is a community of states that, sharing a series of fundamental values, came together to build a common project of freedom, peace and prosperity that has been overcoming barriers and differences. A union guided by the principle of "United in diversity". The strength of the European Union is the strength of its Member States which, in the use and exercise of their sovereignty, undertake a common project that incorporates rights and duties. Membership of the Union also presupposes the equality of all Member States. No Member State may question either the sovereignty or the legitimacy of the others. To do so is to call into question the Union itself. However, very recently we have seen how this vision of Europe has not been put into practice in some specific approaches. We refer to the regrettable management and operation of the European arrest warrant for those who have perpetrated a very serious attack on national sovereignty and Spanish democracy. Situations like this are an obstacle to progress in the union and therefore it is a priority to adopt the necessary reforms to avoid similar situations in the future. The Popular Party is committed to continue advancing in the construction of this union. Any attempt to go backwards is doomed to failure, because European identity is already so intertwined with national identity that trying to separate it will only lead to a crisis like the one Brexit has provoked in the very nation that promoted it. -6 TOGETHER facing common challenges Europe must continue to be committed to politics, because the project that is the European Union was created by politicians such as De Gasperi, Schuman and Adenauer for political purposes such as concord, cooperation and the pursuit of the common good. But we must not make just any policy, but a policy based on our principles and values, a policy capable of defending the open society from its enemies. A policy that allows people to develop in freedom and promotes a strong civil society, as opposed to the failed socialist statism. A policy that is mindful of one of the principles that shaped and forged the Union, the principle of subsidiarity, which guarantees the responsibility of each level of government. The enemies of United Europe have always been the enemies of freedom. The nationalisms and the supporters of the sovereign withdrawal are the new faces of the enemies of Europe. Their projects are destroyers of the Europe of peace, freedom and prosperity that we have built and that we must defend. In addition, the European Union faces a series of global challenges that often exceed its capacity for action and influence: migration crises, the digital revolution, terrorism, economic crises, trade wars, security or environmental defense and protection, to name but a few. Islamist terrorism is a real threat and we have a duty to confront it with all the means at our disposal, to strengthen police cooperation and to recognize the role of the victims in a fight that is both police and moral. Because we defend a Europe without internal borders, we must be committed to guaranteeing external borders. Faced with the waves of irregular immigration, the Union's response must be forceful: immigration can only be legal, orderly and linked to an employment contract. Immigrants must accept European values and commit themselves to integrating into their host society. There is no point in taking refuge in a nationalism that seeks to close borders and raise barriers again, that prefers division to the union of the Member States. Brexit has been a good example of what can happen in other countries if these political currents succeed. We believe in a Europe sustained by a strong, lively, active civil society, involved in political life, aware and proud of its extraordinary historical and cultural heritage. A Europe aware of its diversity and cultural richness. Liberal democracy can only be defended on the basis of tolerance, respect for political pluralism and freedom of expression within the framework of the respective national sovereignties. We want a Spain that is strong in Europe, and a Europe that is strong in Spain. We will work to ensure that Spain has a relevant voice and to defend our interests and that they are taken into account, and we will continue to strive to strengthen the Spanish people's sense of belonging to Europe. To this end, we believe it is essential for the European Union to focus on those areas where common action is an added value for citizens. Furthermore, it is essential to speed up the decision-making procedures of the European institutions, which are extraordinarily slow for a world that is changing at great speed. This is our vision of Europe and these are the main proposals that we will defend in this next European legislature. TOGETHER facing common challenges Europe must continue to be committed to politics, because the project that is the European Union was created by politicians such as De Gasperi, Schuman and Adenauer for political purposes such as concord, cooperation and the pursuit of the common good. But we must not make just any policy, but a policy based on our principles and values, a policy capable of defending the open society from its enemies. A policy that allows people to develop in freedom and promotes a strong civil society, as opposed to the failed socialist statism. A policy that is mindful of one of the principles that shaped and forged the Union, the principle of subsidiarity, which guarantees the responsibility of each level of government. The enemies of United Europe have always been the enemies of freedom. The nationalisms and the supporters of the sovereign withdrawal are the new faces of the enemies of Europe. Their projects are destroyers of the Europe of peace, freedom and prosperity that we have built and that we must defend. In addition, the European Union faces a series of global challenges that often exceed its capacity for action and influence: migration crises, the digital revolution, terrorism, economic crises, trade wars, security or environmental defense and protection, to name but a few. Islamist terrorism is a real threat and we have a duty to confront it with all the means at our disposal, to strengthen police cooperation and to recognize the role of the victims in a fight that is both police and moral. Because we defend a Europe without internal borders, we must be committed to guaranteeing external borders. Faced with the waves of irregular immigration, the Union's response must be forceful: immigration can only be legal, orderly and linked to an employment contract. Immigrants must accept European values and commit themselves to integrating into their host society. There is no point in taking refuge in a nationalism that seeks to close borders and raise barriers again, that prefers division to the union of the Member States. Brexit has been a good example of what can happen in other countries if these political currents succeed. We believe in a Europe sustained by a strong, lively, active civil society, involved in political life, aware and proud of its extraordinary historical and cultural heritage. A Europe aware of its diversity and cultural richness. Liberal democracy can only be defended on the basis of tolerance, respect for political pluralism and freedom of expression within the framework of the respective national sovereignties. We want a Spain that is strong in Europe, and a Europe that is strong in Spain. We will work to ensure that Spain has a relevant voice and to defend our interests and that they are taken into account, and we will continue to strive to strengthen the Spanish people's sense of belonging to Europe. To this end, we believe it is essential for the European Union to focus on those areas where common action is an added value for citizens. Furthermore, it is essential to speed up the decision-making procedures of the European institutions, which are extraordinarily slow for a world that is changing at great speed. This is our vision of Europe and these are the main proposals that we will defend in this next European legislature. -7 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION AND ECONOMIC POLICY 01ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION AND ECONOMIC POLICY 01 01AND ECONOMIC POLICYECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNIONECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNIONThe Euro has been one of the greatest successes in the history of the European Union and Spain was part of it from its inception, but its economic governance requires new fiscal and financial coordination mechanisms that will allow it to face future crises from a more solid position. 1. We will promote the construction of a Eurozone budget and a new fiscal capacity specific to the Eurozone. 2. We will support a policy of revision of the European fiscal rules, in order to reinforce fiscal consolidation and the reduction of public debt, convinced that the consolidation of public finances is a prerequisite for investors to place their trust in the Spanish economy. In this regard, it is a priority objective to ensure that Spain complies with its macroeconomic obligations under the Eurozone's fiscal rules. 3. Regarding the Multiannual Financial Framework and the different European Funds, our party has negotiated and will continue to negotiate firmly the different items of the financial framework, and we will work to ensure the good use of the funds destined to our country, guaranteeing that Spain has the capacity to make the necessary strategic investments that will allow us to be at the European and world forefront in strategic issues. These include transport and telecommunications infrastructures, agricultural funds, fisheries, increased R+D+i, aid to SMEs, Start-Ups, entrepreneurs and self-employed workers, and allowing the adaptation of our country to the new social needs and the new challenges of the Digital Revolution, the Digital Single Market and the global economy. 4. We will continue to promote the policies and instruments that will definitively complete the Banking Union, the Fiscal Union and the agreements on Budgetary matters in order to guarantee the Welfare State and the budgetary balance of the Member States. 5. We will fight against tax evasion, and develop active policies that enable economic growth and labor insertion, and favor European industrial and service sector competitiveness. -10 01AND ECONOMIC POLICYECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNIONECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION>>> 6. We will promote Spain's role in the debates that will shape the future of the European Union in strategic sectors. 7. The creation of a European capital market and the strengthening of bank supervisory and resolution authorities will be promoted. 8. We will promote the establishment of a fully effective Unified European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. 9. We will promote the advancement of the Internal Market to develop a powerful and competitive European digital economy. 10. We will defend job creation as one of the priorities of the Union's economic policy, with a special emphasis on youth employment. 11. We will support a Union Budget that reflects the commitment to a strong and united Europe, which must therefore grow with respect to the current Financial Framework. 12. We will promote the use of European resources available to SMEs, Start Ups and Spanish entrepreneurs and self-employed, particularly the StartUp Europe program, EASME, EUREKA, the good use of the European Investment Bank Funds and the Fund for Strategic Investments for SMEs, COSME and others. In this sense, we will promote the creation of business clusters and business incubators with European funds to promote innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of R+D+i in our country. 13. We will strengthen the role of the European Union in the fulfillment of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as an opportunity to reverse the course of the planet in terms of sustainability, justice, equality and the fight against poverty. -11CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 02 02  02SINGLE MARKETDIGITALSINGLE MARKETDIGITALDigitalization is the most far-reaching technological revolution since the European Union was launched. Digital technologies, cloud computing, big data, the internet of things, blockchain, quantum computing, robotics, artificial intelligence... have c e a s e d to be a sector in their own right and have become the foundation of all innovative and competitive economic fields. In doing so, they are already transforming the foundations of the labor market as we know it today. The European Union, with 22% of the world's GDP, more than 500 million inhabitants, a service sector and a globally advanced industry has the assets and economies of scale to compete in a preferential position in the global digital economy. To do so, it is not enough to try to adapt; it is necessary to have the mindset, determination and ambition to be at the forefront of the digital transformation. Thus: 14. We will promote the development of very high capacity telecommunications networks and infrastructures throughout Spain. 15. We will promote at the national level the rapid transposition into our legal system of European legislation on the Digital Single Market: new regulations on relations between Internet platforms and companies, free circulation of non-personal data, protection of intellectual property in the digital sphere, cross-border e-commerce, portability, cybersecurity, data protection, audiovisual regulations and consumer protection in the online world. -14 02SINGLE MARKETDIGITALSINGLE MARKETDIGITAL>>> 16. We will promote the best conditions for the development of big data and artificial intelligence in the European Union, taking into account consumer protection and the global competitiveness of the economy. 17. We will take the necessary measures to address the new challenges of the digital economy such as the collaborative economy and the proper use of massive data processing (Big Data), among others. 18. We will support the transformation of public administrations into digital administrations that are more open, transparent and efficient, and we will work for their interoperability in the European Union. -15CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 03 03  03 INDUSTRIAL POLICYAND COMMERCIALINDUSTRIAL POLICYAND COMMERCIAL>>> European industry is at a crossroads. On the one hand, it remains the backbone of the European economy: it is closely linked to international expansion, innovation, digitalization, energy transition and the circular economy, and provides employment for approximately 32 million people. On the other hand, its contribution to European GDP has fallen in 20 years from 23% to 19%. Moreover, it faces intense international competition and is often affected by increasingly protectionist trade measures from third countries. To meet these challenges, the People's Party wants a more ambitious European Union industrial policy: 19. We will support the identification and prioritization of "strategic" industrial value chains at the European level, and, taking into account increasing international competition and protectionist tendencies, give weight to industrial issues in EU trade policies. 20. We will work to ensure that European companies compete on a level playing field with those from third countries by developing free trade agreements that guarantee European investment. We need real reciprocity in terms of access to public procurement and R&D programs and a proper screening process for foreign direct investment that protects national security. 21. We will drive the acceleration of the digital transformation of SMEs and support the development of appropriate skills. We must analyze the future of industrial workers and provide them with the necessary training so that they are capable of accompanying companies in this evolution. 22. We will place industrial competitiveness at the center of the debate, and to this end we will orient all other EU policies towards industrial policy objectives. Industry needs more Europe, just as Europe needs more industry. -18 03 INDUSTRIAL POLICYAND COMMERCIALINDUSTRIAL POLICYAND COMMERCIALCommercial policy 23. We will develop an ambitious trade and competition law policy. To this end, public bidding procedures will have to be reformed to address unfair trade practices by third countries. 24. We will defend that the new relations with the United Kingdom be as broad as possible in the commercial and investment sphere. In this sense, the maintenance of reciprocal access to waters and fishing resources should be guaranteed, as our fishing fleet demands. 25. We will support the design of a new architecture for the European Union's trade and investment agreements. 26. We will promote within the Union the work for the creation of an Atlantic Prosperity Area and trade agreements with ASEAN. 27. We will promote trade agreements with MERCOSUR and insist on the EU's priority attention to Latin America. 28. We will support the Union's proposals to reform multilateral trade institutions such as the World Trade Organization and a stabilization of relations between the EU, China and the United States. -19CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE INNOVATION, RESEARCH,SMES AND EMPLOYMENT 04INNOVATION, RESEARCH,SMES AND EMPLOYMENT 04 04 Investments in research, technological development and innovation are a fundamental element for the competitiveness of European companies and industries, and the Partido Popular has made a notable contribution to the success of the Horizon 2020 Research Framework Program. During this legislature, Spain has benefited from this program with more than 3,000 million euros, making it the fourth country that has obtained the most funding and the first in the specific part of the program dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises. INNOVATION, RESEARCH,SMES AND EMPLOYMENT>>> For all these reasons: 29. We will advocate an increase in the EU budget for research and innovation and an envelope of close to €120 billion for the successor to Horizon 2020 between 2021 and 2027. 30. We will support the future Framework Program for Research to continue to have a specific instrument of 2.5 billion euros for innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. We will fight for SMEs to receive 70% of the budget of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, which means a total of 4.8 billion euros. 32. We will continue to promote the Prima Initiative, a program that aims to enable the countries of the Mediterranean rim to finance actions in the areas of sustainable water management and the food sector. 33. We will continue to propose new projects that allow Spanish companies and universities to contribute to the economic development of Mediterranean countries with which we have very close relations. 34. We will promote specific research and innovation programs in strategic sectors in which Spain has very competitive medium-sized companies, such as space and defense. We will defend, as we have done up to now, the need to diversify financial resources so that they do not only reach large companies. Spain's good positioning in these sectors has led, for example, to the relocation of the Galileo Security Center to Torrejón as a result of Brexit. -22  04 INNOVATION, RESEARCH,SMES AND EMPLOYMENTINNOVATION, RESEARCH,SMES AND EMPLOYMENT35. We will promote the creation of business clusters and business incubators with European funds to foster innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of R&D&I in our country. 36. We will support the definitive installation in Spain, in Granada, of the Ifmif-Dones particle accelerator. In employment, the Popular Party is leading the negotiation of the European Social Fund plus (ESF+), which is the main instrument that the EU will have to develop measures in education, training, employment and social inclusion, during the period 2021-2027. Our objective is that the Social Fund will serve to promote more and better quality employment, improve access to the labor market, promote geographic and professional mobility of workers, social inclusion, gender equality, equal opportunities and the adaptation of workers to industrial change. In the Partido Popular we are well aware that digitalization and automation are transforming all economic sectors without exception and will have a profound impact on the labor market. Many jobs will disappear, but new occupations will also be created that will require new professional profiles. For all this: 37. We will continue to defend an allocation of more than 120,000 million euros for active policies that promote equal opportunities and guarantee access to lifelong learning, from early childhood education for children to adult education, facilitating the matching of skills with the needs of the labor market. 38. We will promote training that strengthens knowledge and skills related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Training in digital skills (e-skills) must be at the heart of the European policy agenda. -23 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 05 05  05 EDUCATIONAND CULTUREEDUCATIONAND CULTUREThe ERASMUS program began as an initiative of the European People's Party and has since been considered one of the most emblematic policies of the entire EU. We want to continue to advance the goals of the program. Thus: 39. We will strengthen educational programs at the European level that allow progress in European construction, integration and the promotion of the values on which the Union is based, including the Erasmus+ program and others, and we will promote the development of an ambitious agenda f o r the development of technological skills (e-skills), responsible education in the use of new technologies and the Internet by minors, as well as the protection of minors in the digital environment, and the use and exchange of new digital and pedagogical tools in the educational field at the European level. >>> 40. We will make Erasmus+ even more inclusive by giving people from disadvantaged backgrounds more opportunities to participate in genuine mobility exchanges. 41. We will defend a strong ERASMUS+ and support doubling the available funds to 30 billion euros to triple the number of participants (from 4 to 12 million). 42. We will advocate for a more simplified Erasmus for end-users, incorporating sports into its structure, and introducing Discover EU, a new mobility initiative that would dedicate 700 million euros to eighteen-year-olds to visit another Member State for the first time. 43. We will support the new program to increase learning mobility opportunities for higher education and vocational students. -26  05 EDUCATIONAND CULTUREEDUCATIONAND CULTURE44. We will promote the European Higher Education Area and teacher mobility programs. 45. We will promote the study of a common European history as well as the knowledge of the principles, values and institutions of the European Union in the common education of Europeans. 46. We will support the European Union in intensifying its efforts to protect Europe's cultural heritage. -27 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY UNION 06CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY UNION 06 06CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENTAND ENERGY UNIONThe European Union is fully committed to the objectives of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, and in particular those linked to the environment and energy transition. The EU is a world leader in the fight against climate change, the first major global economy to have already adopted all the necessary legislation to meet its ambitious climate change targets in line with the Paris Agreement. These targets set a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. The European legislation already adopted goes further by setting targets of 32% renewable energy as a proportion of total consumption and an improvement in energy efficiency of 32.5%, which will increase the level of ambition set for 2030 in terms of emissions reduction. To continue to lead the fight against climate change and comply with the Paris Agreement: 47. We will be resolutely committed to emission neutrality by the year 2050, taking advantage of the opportunities that our technological leadership brings in terms of investment, economic growth and job creation. 48. We will take the necessary steps to prepare for this transition in a fair and equitable manner, ensuring that no worker, no economic sector and no region is left behind. 49. We will deepen the integration of the European Union's climate and energy policies. Research, innovation and technological development must allow us to progressively replace current sources for the >>> generation of electricity and heat from renewable energy sources, while at the same time developing carbon capture and storage. 50. During the next legislature it will be necessary to review the rules governing the internal gas market, as well as to start designing a stable framework for gaseous fuels, such as hydrogen. 51. We are committed to sustainable mobility, promoting the unstoppable process of electrification. 52. We support ambitious and realistic targets, we reject the imposition of restrictions and bans, we are committed to promoting and accompanying this process with strong support for the development of the new generation of batteries developed by Europeans in Europe, as well as the creation of the necessary infrastructure, mainly recharging points. 53. We will work so that Spain can fully benefit from a European Internal Energy Market, taking advantage of the benefits this brings in terms of prices, energy security and opportunities for our companies. To this end, we will continue to work to develop cross-border interconnection capacity with our neighbors. 54. We will strongly support Europe in defending the freedom and independence of European energy markets against external threats, through diversification and supply routes. 55. We will continue to work to preserve the quality of life and natural spaces and to protect biodiversity, in line with the objectives of the European Environmental Policy. -30 CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENTAND ENERGY UNIONAND ENERGY UNION 0656. We will continue to drive initiatives around the objectives of the European Environmental Policy and the EU's environmental priorities, ensuring human health and the preservation of biodiversity, promoting the Circular Economy. 57. We will give a boost to sustainable energy policies that allow our companies to maintain their competitiveness while being able to comply with the agreements, with the aim of improving the quality of life and preserving the well-being of our natural spaces and the protection of biodiversity. 58. We will promote collaboration with the private sector to advance healthy habits and the development of technologies that reduce the impact on health and the environment. The fight against climate change is a priority objective for the People's Party. Environmental commitments are essential; our future and that of our young people depends on them. We will work with determination to achieve a low-emission economy, neutral by 2050, accompanied by an energy transition that allows economic growth and job creation. -31 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP), RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIES 07 COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP), RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIES 07  07 COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP),RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIESCOMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP),RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIESThe future of rural and fishing Spain is largely at stake in Europe. Therefore, Spaniards need representatives who know how to negotiate in Brussels and know how to formulate policies and budgets aligned with the interests of our country. The first step to face the demographic challenge of rural Spain as a result of depopulation and aging must be to provide opportunities for its inhabitants. It is our obligation to continue promoting a powerful agri-food industry from its origin to its internationalization. This must go hand in hand with the promotion of measures that encourage a policy of services that will allow the population to be attracted and take root. We will continue to advocate that demographics should have a greater weight when it comes to distributing structural funds among the different Member States. With regard to agricultural policy, our objective is to consolidate a competitive, professionalized and sustainable agriculture. And for this, the CAP is the best tool at our disposal. A CAP that guarantees farmers' incomes, that allows our production to be sustainable and that provides guarantees to millions of European consumers. We need a sufficient budget. That is why we will continue to fight to maintain the level of resources of the current budget, close to 47.5 billion euros. The Popular Party is leading the reform of the CAP. During the next legislature we will maintain our demands on such crucial issues as the promotion of agriculture in depopulated areas to combat the problems of empty Spain, also thanks to the ERDF funds; the improvement of the specific treatment of the Mediterranean sectors (mainly fruit and vegetables, wine and beekeeping); the recognition of the particular disadvantages of certain regions, such as the island regions, outermost regions and other areas with natural obstacles; the need to promote generational renewal through greater support for young people and others who wish to set up in the countryside; more decisive support for the livestock sectors, including the recognition of Mediterranean pastures, such as dehesas; the extension of aid for irrigation investments, called into question in the European Commission's proposal, as well as the maintenance of the design and management of Rural Development programs at the national level and by the Spanish autonomous communities. -34  07 COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP),RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIESCOMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY (CAP),RURAL ENVIRONMENT AND FISHERIESThe proposals of the Popular Party substantially improve the proposals of the European Commission, since they offer guarantees for the maintenance of basic income support for Spanish agricultural and livestock farms. In contrast to the other parties, the Partido Popular prioritizes the profitability of farms, while guaranteeing their compatibility with the environmental requirements of the European Union. The Popular Party will advocate that the final legislation favors the European model of family farming, without jeopardizing the profitability of larger farms. In turn, the Popular Party advocates a fairer distribution of CAP aid and defends specific measures to promote the participation of women in the economy of rural areas. Therefore, we are committed to: To prioritize the CAP in the negotiations of the new European budget, in order to maintain the stability of the agricultural sector and guarantee the sustainability of the Spanish countryside. >>> To defend a modern and modernizing CAP that promotes the development and competitiveness of all sectors throughout Spain, while contributing to environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change. 61. To promote programs for sustainability and the future of agriculture and food in the European institutions, facilitating farmers and industrialists to advance in sustainability, in the incorporation of the principles of the circular economy and in the development of strategies for adaptation and mitigation of climate change. 62. To support Spanish producers of citrus and other agricultural and livestock products in the face of market changes that may jeopardize the viability of our productive sectors. To this end, we will work together with producers in the defense of their interests, in the surveillance of compliance with trade agreements, in sanitary control and in the monitoring of their impact on the future of the different sectors. -35  07 MORE OPPORTUNITIESFOR INDIVIDUALSMORE OPPORTUNITIESFOR INDIVIDUALSFishing >>> The People's Party is leading the debate on the European Maritime and 63. We defend the maintenance of aid for temporary fleet stoppages and we are Fisheries Fund (EMFF) and has succeeded in getting the European against the introduction of very restrictive requirements for aid for permanent Parliament to call for a 10 percent increase in the fund to 7.74 billion stoppages. euros. -36  07 MORE OPPORTUNITIESFOR INDIVIDUALSMORE OPPORTUNITIESFOR INDIVIDUALS64. We support specific treatment for the artisanal fleet. Regarding the important fisheries control regulation, our priorities in this negotiation are: To achieve greater homogenization in the fisheries control policy, to restrict the introduction of a system for monitoring discards by means of television cameras and to prevent fishing control measures from causing a sharp increase in the administrative burden and cost for the small coastal fleet. To continue promoting the achievement of fishing agreements with third countries, which are so important for the Spanish and European fleets. -37 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 08 08  08TRANSPORTA more and better connected Europe is a more united and prosperous Europe. That is why the People's Party defends the strengthening and modernization of transport infrastructures throughout the continent, taking into account both new forms of mobility and traditional transport systems. About rail transport: 67. The "Connecting Europe" Program finances transport i n f r a s t r u c t u r e in the Member States with priority given to railroads, as they are considered to be the backbone of EU transport in the future, both for passengers and freight. The bulk of the program's funds will go to rail corridors. In the recent revision of the program, at the proposal of the People's Party, the Commission has included new rail sections in northwest Spain in the Atlantic Corridor. These new lines should help reverse the industrial and population decline in northwest Spain. The EU i n s t i t u t i o n s have also approved the Partido Popular's proposal to include the Zaragoza-Teruel-Sagunto and Valencia-Madrid sections in the Mediterranean Rail Corridor, which we have strongly supported since its inception. Spain's port system is of strategic interest to our country. Puertos del Estado manages the infrastructures through which we import and export most of our goods, and we have three of the largest ports in the EU (Algeciras, Valencia and Barcelona). >>> 68. We defend the possibility of maintaining the Spanish model, against the criteria of the nationalist parties. The Popular Party defends conceiving port activity as of general interest, under the principles of competition and transparency, with a national, logistic and port strategy. The Popular Party believes it is necessary to strengthen the rights of air transport passengers. For this reason: 69. Greater protection is needed in relation to delays with passengers already in the cabin, delay care and possible compensation, damages in the event of a strike, "no-show" clauses (denying boarding on a return flight if the passenger has not taken the outbound flight), mandatory information to be given before making a reservation (including baggage allowance), and the possibility of carrying purchases made at airports in the hand. -40  08TRANSPORTIn relation to road traffic: 70. The Partido Popular in Parliament has defended greater flexibility in relation to drivers' rest times, especially that these take place at home, better control of driving times and trip incidents, more flexible rules for small companies and the simplification of roadside controls. During the next legislature, the Partido Popular will continue to defend the competitiveness of the Spanish transport sector and the improvement of drivers' working conditions. Regarding road safety: 71. We will address standards for automated and connected vehicles, as well as data protection, cybersecurity and attribution of liability in the event of an accident. We will contribute to the "Vision Zero" target: near-zero fatalities and serious injuries in the EU by 2050. -41 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 09INMIGRATION 09INMIGRATION  09INMIGRATIONImmigration Irregular immigration is one of the biggest challenges facing Europe. For this reason: 72. We will work actively with the rest of the Member States in the defense of a common immigration policy. We will promote the inclusion of the fight against irregular immigration as one of the main priorities of the new Multiannual Financial Framework. 74. We will work together with the rest of the Member States on a Common Policy on immigration and asylum. We believe that the future European Commission should concentrate on being an effective guardian of the Treaties and should deepen and develop to the maximum the instruments offered by the Treaties. 75. We will promote the design of a new asylum system adapted to the reality of the 21st century, which avoids the business of the mafias that traffic in human beings and curbs migratory tensions at the borders of the European Union. We will defend an increase in the resources of the State Security Forces and Corps for the control of external borders and we will promote the role of the European Border Agency (FRONTEX), reinforcing its human and material resources. We believe that efficient economic cooperation with the African countries with the highest immigration rates is essential in o r d e r to favor their economic development and facilitate the stability of their populations. In addition, we believe that the European Union needs an energetic policy against the mafias that traffic in human beings. -44  09INMIGRATION-45 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE THE EUROPE OF DEFENSE, ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDER AND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTS 10 THE EUROPE OF DEFENSE, ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDER AND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTS 10  10THE EUROPE OF DEFENSE,ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDERAND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTSTHE EUROPE OF DEFENSE,ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDERAND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTS>>> Policy anti-terrorism As a complement to the transatlantic relationship, materialized in NATO: Anti-terrorism policy must be based on the objective of ensuring the security of European citizens and mutual trust between Member States. For this reason: will promote a Common Defense Policy that will enable the European Union to face geopolitical, strategic and global challenges for 80. We will give new impetus to the European Security and Justice Area to the defense of democracy, freedom and equality, together with the strengthen judicial and police collaboration and information exchange protection of human rights. mechanisms in the face of the new challenges posed by Islamist terrorism. We will support the intensification of defense cooperation among 81. We will promote the approval of the European Charter for the Victims of Member States. Our objective is to improve coordination in this area, Terrorism that includes a protocol to, among other things, alleviate the increase defense investments, promote research and jointly strengthen administrative and even judicial burden on relatives and victims of terrorist defense capabilities. In addition, we will defend Spain's leading role as one attacks. of the driving forces behind PESCO. We will promote new cooperation mechanisms in the field of cybersecurity, especially by strengthening the role of the European Cybersecurity Agency. We will work to make León, Spain's cybersecurity capital, its headquarters. 78. We 79. 82. -48  10THE EUROPE OF DEFENSE,ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDERAND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTSTHE EUROPE OF DEFENSE,ANTI-TERRORISM POLICY, EURO-ORDERAND RECOGNITION OF CRIMINAL COURT JUDGMENTSEuro-order and recognition of court rulings criminal No Member State should question the legitimacy, sovereignty or quality of the legal system and judicial decisions of another Member State, and we will fight to ensure that no criminal can roam freely in Europe in the presence of judicial decisions requesting his arrest. It is inadmissible that, in the European Union, which is a community of law, Member States do not recognize certain crimes committed against the integrity and sovereignty of other Member States. That is why: 83. We will propose the reform of the Euro-order so that the crimes of sedition and rebellion are recognized and so that its execution procedure is more a g i l e . It is inadmissible that, in the European Union, which is a Community of Law, the Member States do not recognize certain crimes committed against the integrity and sovereignty of other Member States. 84. We will strengthen the automatic recognition of the criminal judicial decisions of the Member States and the progressive convergence of criminal law. Membership of the European Union automatically implies recognition of the sovereignty of each Member State and the democratic quality of each and e v e r y Member State. 85. We will give new impetus to the European Security and Justice Area to strengthen judicial and police collaboration and information exchange mechanisms in the face of new challenges. -49 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE EUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY. DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAW 11 EUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY. DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAW 11  10EUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY.DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAWEUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY.DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAW>>> In a complex, multipolar and interdependent world we need an cultural factors that make it necessary for us to maintain and deepen this special increasingly cohesive and effective European foreign policy. The EU must and priority relationship. be a global political actor because together we are stronger than separately. For this reason, decision-making in this area must be more 89. We believe that the European Union must always stand with democratic agile, and we will support formulas that make it possible to overcome the dissidents in dictatorships. requirement of unanimity in certain areas. 90. We will continue to be at the forefront of the defense of human rights and of The European Union must strengthen its commitment to a world order based the European Union's assistance to all those who fight for the cause of on multilateralism and the primacy of international law. We need a foreign democracy and freedom in the world, as in Venezuela, Cuba or Nicaragua. policy consistent with our values, principles and interests; respect for democracy and the rule of law must be a priority in the Union's external We have achieved that the European Parliament was the first EU institution to action. For this reason: recognize Juan Guaidó as president in charge, and we will not cease in our efforts to restore democracy in Venezuela. We will continue to collaborate with the We will strengthen Spain's role and defend the interests of our countries of the so-called Lima Group and we will defend that only the country in the face of the challenges that the Union will have to face in the government of Juan Guaidó and the representatives he designates be recognized coming years. Among them, the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, as legitimate and we will promote the convening of a Donors' Conference to the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, the collaborate in the economic reconstruction and institutional reorganization of protection of the environment, the global fight against terrorism, ensuring the country. the effectiveness of security and defense policy, migration and trade crises and other new global geopolitical challenges, as well as in all legislative We strongly support the conclusion of the EU agreement with MERCOSUR, and budgetary initiatives to be developed within the European Institutions which will serve to strengthen relations between the EU and the important in the coming years. group of countries that comprise it. will decisively promote a greater presence of Spain in the 92. We defend the priority of the relationship with the United States, which has European institutions, especially in the European External Action Service, been and is the most important strategic alliance for Europe since the Second not only in the delegations, but also in senior management positions. World War. We will support formulas that strengthen economic and trade relations with the United States, convinced that this will also benefit the political 88. We will continue to take the lead in strengthening the EU's relations relationship with that country. The transatlantic dimension with the US and with the countries of the Americas. We share with the countries of the Canada in security and defense matters has been essential to safeguard peace American continent values and multiple political, economic, social and and prosperity in Europe. We will therefore encourage the strengthening of cultural ties. cooperation between the European Union and NATO. 86. 87. We -52  10EUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY.DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAWEUROPEAN FOREIGN POLICY.DEFENSE OF FREEDOM AND DEMOCRACY ABROAD. DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAWFor the European Union, the relationship with neighboring countries is particularly relevant. In addition to the so-called Eastern Neighborhood, we have such an important actor as Russia. We need a very cohesive foreign policy given the difficult period that the European Union's relations with the Russian government are going through. 93. We will prioritize close relations of dialogue and cooperation with our southern Mediterranean neighbors, and especially with the Maghreb countries, with which we have important ties. We will continue to promote policies that will result in prosperity and development in these countries, some of which are going through complex situations of instability and uncertainty. 94. We will continue to support a Marshall Plan for Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa has to face many challenges, not only political, but also economic, social, security, environmental, etc. 95. We support the deepening of the Strategic Partnership with China. China is an indispensable actor in today's world. Its political and economic rise is one of the most relevant facts of our time and cooperation between the EU and China is essential to face important global challenges. China is the EU's second largest trading partner, we will pursue a positive, balanced and mutually beneficial economic relationship. We will continue to promote agreements with China that remove barriers to investment and access to the Chinese market for European products. We will promote within the European Union to study formulas for cooperation with the New Silk Road initiative and seek synergies with the Connecting Europe Facility. 96. We welcome the intensification of relations with Japan and the fact that the recently concluded trade agreement with the European Union will serve to strengthen relations with the Asian country, as was already the case with the agreement with South Korea. 97. We support the growing presence of the European Union in the dynamic Asia-Pacific area, through agreements with the ASEAN countries, Australia and New Zealand. 98. We will support all necessary measures to prevent nuclear proliferation in the Middle East and will support initiatives that facilitate the denuclearization of countries such as Iran. 99. We will continue to promote the European Union's relations with the United Nations and aim for the EU to become a permanent member of a reformed Security Council. -53 CENTRADOS IN YOUR FUTURE 12 12 As before, with rigor and firmness, we will continue to assert the "colony" character of Gibraltar and the recognition as such by the entire European Union. We will defend the maintenance of Spain's veto right on Gibraltar issues in the agreements on future relations between the EU and the United Kingdom in the context of Brexit. 100. We will defend the Spanish position regarding Gibraltar in the European Institutions. From the Government of Spain we will make absolutely clear that no agreement can be made from the EU on Gibraltar without the consent of the Kingdom of Spain. Gibraltar will not be a bargaining chip or object of any negotiation, and for this we will continue to actively promote parliamentary initiatives to defend the historical claims of Spain. -56 